# From:  https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/jvm-works-jvm-architecture/


# JRE execution steps

### 1 Loading

Loading: The Class loader reads the “.class” file, generate the corresponding binary data and save it in the method area. For each “.class” file, JVM stores the following information in the method area. 
 

* The fully qualified name of the loaded class and its immediate parent class.
* Whether the “.class” file is related to Class or Interface or Enum.
* Modifier, Variables and Method information etc.

### 2 Linking

Linking: Performs verification, preparation, and (optionally) resolution. 

1. Verification: It ensures the correctness of the .class file i.e. it checks whether this file is properly formatted and generated by a valid compiler or not. If verification fails, we get run-time exception java.lang.VerifyError. This activity is done by the component ByteCodeVerifier. Once this activity is completed then the class file is ready for compilation.
2. Preparation: JVM allocates memory for class static variables and initializing the memory to default values. 
3. Resolution: It is the process of replacing symbolic references from the type with direct references. It is done by searching into the method area to locate the referenced entity.

### 3 Initialization

Initialization: In this phase, all static variables are assigned with their values defined in the code and static block(if any). This is executed from top to bottom in a class and from parent to child in the class hierarchy. 
In general, there are three class loaders : 

    Bootstrap class loader: Every JVM implementation must have a bootstrap class loader, capable of loading trusted classes. It loads core java API classes present in the “JAVA_HOME/jre/lib” directory. This path is popularly known as the bootstrap path. It is implemented in native languages like C, C++.
    Extension class loader: It is a child of the bootstrap class loader. It loads the classes present in the extensions directories “JAVA_HOME/jre/lib/ext”(Extension path) or any other directory specified by the java.ext.dirs system property. It is implemented in java by the sun.misc.Launcher$ExtClassLoader class.
    System/Application class loader: It is a child of the extension class loader. It is responsible to load classes from the application classpath. It internally uses Environment Variable which mapped to java.class.path. It is also implemented in Java by the sun.misc.Launcher$AppClassLoader class.
