Google JavaScript Style Guide
=============================

1 Introduction
--------------

This document serves as the **complete** definition of Google's coding
standards for source code in the JavaScript programming language. A
JavaScript source file is described as being *in Google Style* if and
only if it adheres to the rules herein.

Like other programming style guides, the issues covered span not only
aesthetic issues of formatting, but other types of conventions or coding
standards as well. However, this document focuses primarily on the
hard-and-fast rules that we follow universally, and avoids giving advice
that isn\'t clearly enforceable (whether by human or tool).

### 1.1 Terminology notes

In this document, unless otherwise clarified:

1.  The term *comment* always refers to *implementation* comments. We do
    not use the phrase "documentation comments", instead using the
    common term "JSDoc" for both human-readable text and
    machine-readable annotations within `/** … */`.

2.  This Style Guide uses [RFC 2119](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119)
    terminology when using the phrases *must*, *must not*, *should*,
    *should not*, and *may*. The terms *prefer* and *avoid* correspond
    to *should* and *should not*, respectively. Imperative and
    declarative statements are prescriptive and correspond to *must*.

Other "terminology notes" will appear occasionally throughout the
document.

### 1.2 Guide notes

Example code in this document is **non-normative**. That is, while the
examples are in Google Style, they may not illustrate the *only* stylish
way to represent the code. Optional formatting choices made in examples
must not be enforced as rules.

2 Source file basics
--------------------

### 2.1 File name

File names must be all lowercase and may include underscores (`_`) or
dashes (`-`), but no additional punctuation. Follow the convention that
your project uses. Filenames' extension must be `.js`.

### 2.2 File encoding: UTF-8 {#file-encoding}

Source files are encoded in **UTF-8**.

### 2.3 Special characters

#### 2.3.1 Whitespace characters

Aside from the line terminator sequence, the ASCII horizontal space
character (0x20) is the only whitespace character that appears anywhere
in a source file. This implies that

1.  All other whitespace characters in string literals are escaped, and

2.  Tab characters are **not** used for indentation.

#### 2.3.2 Special escape sequences

For any character that has a special escape sequence (`\'`, `\"`, `\\`,
`\b`, `\f`, `\n`, `\r`, `\t`, `\v`), that sequence is used rather than
the corresponding numeric escape (e.g `\x0a`, `\u000a`, or `\u{a}`).
Legacy octal escapes are never used.

#### 2.3.3 Non-ASCII characters

For the remaining non-ASCII characters, either the actual Unicode
character (e.g. `∞`) or the equivalent hex or Unicode escape (e.g.
`\u221e`) is used, depending only on which makes the code **easier to
read and understand**.

Tip: In the Unicode escape case, and occasionally even when actual
Unicode characters are used, an explanatory comment can be very helpful.

    /* Best: perfectly clear even without a comment. */
    const units = 'μs';

    /* Allowed: but unncessary as μ is a printable character. */
    const units = '\u03bcs'; // 'μs'

    /* Good: use escapes for non-printable characters with a comment for clarity. */
    return '\ufeff' + content;  // Prepend a byte order mark.

    /* Poor: the reader has no idea what character this is. */
    const units = '\u03bcs';

Tip: Never make your code less readable simply out of fear that some
programs might not handle non-ASCII characters properly. If that
happens, those programs are **broken** and they must be **fixed**.

3 Source file structure
-----------------------

All new source files should either be a `goog.module` file (a file
containing a `goog.module` call) or an ECMAScript (ES) module (uses
`import` and `export` statements). Files consist of the following, **in
order**:

1.  License or copyright information, if present
2.  `@fileoverview` JSDoc, if present
3.  `goog.module` statement, if a `goog.module` file
4.  ES `import` statements, if an ES module
5.  `goog.require` and `goog.requireType` statements
6.  The file's implementation

**Exactly one blank line** separates each section that is present,
except the file\'s implementation, which may be preceded by 1 or 2 blank
lines.

### 3.1 License or copyright information, if present {#file-copyright}

If license or copyright information belongs in a file, it belongs here.

### 3.2 `@fileoverview` JSDoc, if present {#file-fileoverview}

See [??](#jsdoc-top-file-level-comments) for formatting rules.

### 3.3 `goog.module` statement {#file-goog-module}

All `goog.module` files must declare exactly one `goog.module` name on a
single line: lines containing a `goog.module` declaration must not be
wrapped, and are therefore an exception to the 80-column limit.

The entire argument to goog.module is what defines a namespace. It is
the package name (an identifier that reflects the fragment of the
directory structure where the code lives) plus, optionally, the main
class/enum/interface that it defines concatenated to the end.

Example

    goog.module('search.urlHistory.UrlHistoryService');

#### 3.3.1 Hierarchy {#naming-hierarchy}

Module namespaces may never be named as a *direct* child of another
module\'s namespace.

Disallowed:

    goog.module('foo.bar');   // 'foo.bar.qux' would be fine, though
    goog.module('foo.bar.baz');

The directory hierarchy reflects the namespace hierarchy, so that
deeper-nested children are subdirectories of higher-level parent
directories. Note that this implies that owners of "parent" namespace
groups are necessarily aware of all child namespaces, since they exist
in the same directory.

#### 3.3.2 `goog.module.declareLegacyNamespace` {#file-declare-legacy-namespace}

The single `goog.module` statement may optionally be followed by a call
to `goog.module.declareLegacyNamespace();`. Avoid
`goog.module.declareLegacyNamespace()` when possible.

Example:

    goog.module('my.test.helpers');
    goog.module.declareLegacyNamespace();
    goog.setTestOnly();

`goog.module.declareLegacyNamespace` exists to ease the transition from
traditional object hierarchy-based namespaces but comes with some naming
restrictions. As the child module name must be created after the parent
namespace, this name **must not** be a child or parent of any other
`goog.module` (for example, `goog.module('parent');` and
`goog.module('parent.child');` cannot both exist safely, nor can
`goog.module('parent');` and `goog.module('parent.child.grandchild');`).

### 3.3.3 `goog.module` Exports {#file-goog-module-exports}

Classes, enums, functions, constants, and other symbols are exported
using the `exports` object. Exported symbols may be defined directly on
the `exports` object, or else declared locally and exported separately.
Symbols are only exported if they are meant to be used outside the
module. Non-exported module-local symbols are not declared `@private`
nor do their names end with an underscore. There is no prescribed
ordering for exported and module-local symbols.

Examples:

    const /** !Array<number> */ exportedArray = [1, 2, 3];

    const /** !Array<number> */ moduleLocalArray = [4, 5, 6];

    /** @return {number} */
    function moduleLocalFunction() {
      return moduleLocalArray.length;
    }

    /** @return {number} */
    function exportedFunction() {
      return moduleLocalFunction() * 2;
    }

    exports = {exportedArray, exportedFunction};

    /** @const {number} */
    exports.CONSTANT_ONE = 1;

    /** @const {string} */
    exports.CONSTANT_TWO = 'Another constant';

Do not annotate the `exports` object as `@const` as it is already
treated as a constant by the compiler.

    /** @const */
    exports = {exportedFunction};

### 3.4 ES modules {#file-es-modules}

#### 3.4.1 Imports {#es-module-imports}

Import statements must not be line wrapped and are therefore an
exception to the 80-column limit.

##### 3.4.1.1 Import paths {#esm-import-paths}

ES module files must use the `import` statement to import other ES
module files. Do not `goog.require` another ES module.

    import './sideeffects.js';

    import * as goog from '../closure/goog/goog.js';
    import * as parent from '../parent.js';

    import {name} from './sibling.js';

###### 3.4.1.1.1 File extensions in import paths {#esm-import-paths-file-extension}

The `.js` file extension is not optional in import paths and must always
be included.

    import '../directory/file';

    import '../directory/file.js';

##### 3.4.1.2 Importing the same file multiple times

Do not import the same file multiple times. This can make it hard to
determine the aggregate imports of a file.

    // Imports have the same path, but since it doesn't align it can be hard to see.
    import {short} from './long/path/to/a/file.js';
    import {aLongNameThatBreaksAlignment} from './long/path/to/a/file.js';

##### 3.4.1.3 Naming imports {#naming-esm-imports}

###### 3.4.1.3.1 Naming module imports

Module import names (`import * as name`) are `lowerCamelCase` names that
are derived from the imported file name.

    import * as fileOne from '../file-one.js';
    import * as fileTwo from '../file_two.js';
    import * as fileThree from '../filethree.js';

    import * as libString from './lib/string.js';
    import * as math from './math/math.js';
    import * as vectorMath from './vector/math.js';

###### 3.4.1.3.2 Naming default imports

Default import names are derived from the imported file name and follow
the rules in [??](#naming-rules-by-identifier-type).

    import MyClass from '../my-class.js';
    import myFunction from '../my_function.js';
    import SOME_CONSTANT from '../someconstant.js';

Note: In general this should not happen as default exports are banned by
this style guide, see [??](#named-vs-default-exports). Default imports
are only used to import modules that do not conform to this style guide.

###### 3.4.1.3.3 Naming named imports

In general symbols imported via the named import (`import {name}`)
should keep the same name. Avoid aliasing imports
(`import {SomeThing as SomeOtherThing}`). Prefer fixing name collisions
by using a module import (`import *`) or renaming the exports
themselves.

    import * as bigAnimals from './biganimals.js';
    import * as domesticatedAnimals from './domesticatedanimals.js';

    new bigAnimals.Cat();
    new domesticatedAnimals.Cat();

If renaming a named import is needed then use components of the imported
module\'s file name or path in the resulting alias.

    import {Cat as BigCat} from './biganimals.js';
    import {Cat as DomesticatedCat} from './domesticatedanimals.js';

    new BigCat();
    new DomesticatedCat();

#### 3.4.2 Exports {#es-module-exports}

Symbols are only exported if they are meant to be used outside the
module. Non-exported module-local symbols are not declared `@private`
nor do their names end with an underscore. There is no prescribed
ordering for exported and module-local symbols.

##### 3.4.2.1 Named vs default exports

Use named exports in all code. You can apply the `export` keyword to a
declaration, or use the `export {name};` syntax.

Do not use default exports. Importing modules must give a name to these
values, which can lead to inconsistencies in naming across modules.

    // Do not use default exports:
    export default class Foo { ... } // BAD!

    // Use named exports:
    export class Foo { ... }

    // Alternate style named exports:
    class Foo { ... }

    export {Foo};

##### 3.4.2.2 Exporting static container classes and objects {#exporting-static-containers}

Do not export container classes or objects with static methods or
properties for the sake of namespacing.

    // container.js
    // Bad: Container is an exported class that has only static methods and fields.
    export class Container {
      /** @return {number} */
      static bar() {
        return 1;
      }
    }

    /** @const {number} */
    Container.FOO = 1;

Instead, export individual constants and functions:

    /** @return {number} */
    export function bar() {
      return 1;
    }

    export const /** number */ FOO = 1;

##### 3.4.2.3 Mutability of exports {#esm-exports-mutability}

Exported variables must not be mutated outside of module initialization.

There are alternatives if mutation is needed, including exporting a
constant reference to an object that has mutable fields or exporting
accessor functions for mutable data.

    // Bad: both foo and mutateFoo are exported and mutated.
    export let /** number */ foo = 0;

    /**
     * Mutates foo.
     */
    export function mutateFoo() {
      ++foo;
    }

    /**
     * @param {function(number): number} newMutateFoo
     */
    export function setMutateFoo(newMutateFoo) {
      // Exported classes and functions can be mutated!
      mutateFoo = () => {
        foo = newMutateFoo(foo);
      };
    }

    // Good: Rather than export the mutable variables foo and mutateFoo directly,
    // instead make them module scoped and export a getter for foo and a wrapper for
    // mutateFooFunc.
    let /** number */ foo = 0;
    let /** function(number): number */ mutateFooFunc = foo => foo + 1;

    /** @return {number} */
    export function getFoo() {
      return foo;
    }

    export function mutateFoo() {
      foo = mutateFooFunc(foo);
    }

    /** @param {function(number): number} mutateFoo */
    export function setMutateFoo(mutateFoo) {
      mutateFooFunc = mutateFoo;
    }

##### 3.4.2.4 export from {#es-module-export-from}

`export from` statements must not be line wrapped and are therefore an
exception to the 80-column limit. This applies to both `export from`
flavors.

    export {specificName} from './other.js';
    export * from './another.js';

#### 3.4.3 Circular Dependencies in ES modules {#es-module-circular-dependencies}

Do not create cycles between ES modules, even though the ECMAScript
specification allows this. Note that it is possible to create cycles
with both the `import` and `export` statements.

    // a.js
    import './b.js';

    // b.js
    import './a.js';

    // `export from` can cause circular dependencies too!
    export {x} from './c.js';

    // c.js
    import './b.js';

    export let x;

#### 3.4.4 Interoperating with Closure {#es-module-closure-interop}

##### 3.4.4.1 Referencing goog {#es-module-referencing-goog}

To reference the Closure `goog` namespace, import Closure\'s `goog.js`.

    import * as goog from '../closure/goog/goog.js';

    const name = goog.require('a.name');

    export const CONSTANT = name.compute();

`goog.js` exports only a subset of properties from the global `goog`
that can be used in ES modules.

##### 3.4.4.2 goog.require in ES modules {#goog-require-in-es-module}

`goog.require` in ES modules works as it does in `goog.module` files.
You can require any Closure namespace symbol (i.e., symbols created by
`goog.provide` or `goog.module`) and `goog.require` will return the
value.

    import * as goog from '../closure/goog/goog.js';
    import * as anEsModule from './anEsModule.js';

    const GoogPromise = goog.require('goog.Promise');
    const myNamespace = goog.require('my.namespace');

##### 3.4.4.3 Declaring Closure Module IDs in ES modules {#closure-module-id-in-es-module}

`goog.declareModuleId` can be used within ES modules to declare a
`goog.module`-like module ID. This means that this module ID can be
`goog.require`d, `goog.module.get`d, `goog.forwardDeclare`\'d, etc. as
if it were a `goog.module` that did not call
`goog.module.declareLegacyNamespace`. It does not create the module ID
as a globally available JavaScript symbol.

A `goog.require` (or `goog.module.get`) for a module ID from
`goog.declareModuleId` will always return the module object (as if it
was `import *`\'d). As a result, the argument to `goog.declareModuleId`
should always end with a `lowerCamelCaseName`.

Note: It is an error to call `goog.module.declareLegacyNamespace` in an
ES module, it can only be called from `goog.module` files. There is no
direct way to associate a "legacy" namespace with an ES module.

`goog.declareModuleId` should only be used to upgrade Closure files to
ES modules in place, where named exports are used.

    import * as goog from '../closure/goog.js';

    goog.declareModuleId('my.esm');

    export class Class {};

### 3.5 `goog.setTestOnly` {#file-set-test-only}

In a `goog.module` file the `goog.module` statement may optionally be
followed by a call to `goog.setTestOnly()`.

In an ES module the `import` statements may optionally be followed by a
call to `goog.setTestOnly()`.

### 3.6 `goog.require` and `goog.requireType` statements {#file-goog-require}

Imports are done with `goog.require` and `goog.requireType` statements.
The names imported by a `goog.require` statement may be used both in
code and in type annotations, while those imported by a
`goog.requireType` may be used in type annotations only.

The `goog.require` and `goog.requireType` statements form a contiguous
block with no empty lines. This block follows the `goog.module`
declaration separated [by a single empty line](#source-file-structure).
The entire argument to `goog.require` or `goog.requireType` is a
namespace defined by a `goog.module` in a separate file. `goog.require`
and `goog.requireType` statements may not appear anywhere else in the
file.

Each `goog.require` or `goog.requireType` is assigned to a single
constant alias, or else destructured into several constant aliases.
These aliases are the only acceptable way to refer to dependencies in
type annotations or code. Fully qualified namespaces must not be used
anywhere, except as an argument to `goog.require` or `goog.requireType`.

**Exception**: Types, variables, and functions declared in externs files
have to use their fully qualified name in type annotations and code.

Aliases must match the final dot-separated component of the imported
module\'s namespace.

**Exception**: In certain cases, additional components of the namespace
can be used to form a longer alias. The resulting alias must retain the
original identifier\'s casing such that it still correctly identifies
its type. Longer aliases may be used to disambiguate otherwise identical
aliases, or if it significantly improves readability. In addition, a
longer alias must be used to prevent masking native types such as
`Element`, `Event`, `Error`, `Map`, and `Promise` (for a more complete
list, see [Standard Built-in
Objects](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects)
and [Web APIs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API) at
MDN). When renaming destructured aliases, a space must follow the colon
as required in [??](#formatting-horizontal-whitespace).

A file should not contain both a `goog.require` and a `goog.requireType`
statement for the same namespace. If the imported name is used both in
code and in type annotations, it should be imported by a single
`goog.require` statement.

If a module is imported only for its side effects, the call must be a
`goog.require` (not a `goog.requireType`) and assignment may be omitted.
A comment is required to explain why this is needed and suppress a
compiler warning.

The lines are sorted according to the following rules: All requires with
a name on the left hand side come first, sorted alphabetically by those
names. Then destructuring requires, again sorted by the names on the
left hand side. Finally, any require calls that are standalone
(generally these are for modules imported just for their side effects).

Tip: There's no need to memorize this order and enforce it manually. You
can rely on your IDE to report requires that are not sorted correctly.

If a long alias or module name would cause a line to exceed the
80-column limit, it **must not** be wrapped: require lines are an
exception to the 80-column limit.

Example:

    // Standard alias style.
    const MyClass = goog.require('some.package.MyClass');
    const MyType = goog.requireType('some.package.MyType');
    // Namespace-based alias used to disambiguate.
    const NsMyClass = goog.require('other.ns.MyClass');
    // Namespace-based alias used to prevent masking native type.
    const RendererElement = goog.require('web.renderer.Element');
    // Out of sequence namespace-based aliases used to improve readability.
    // Also, require lines longer than 80 columns must not be wrapped.
    const SomeDataStructureModel = goog.requireType('identical.package.identifiers.models.SomeDataStructure');
    const SomeDataStructureProto = goog.require('proto.identical.package.identifiers.SomeDataStructure');
    // Standard alias style.
    const asserts = goog.require('goog.asserts');
    // Namespace-based alias used to disambiguate.
    const testingAsserts = goog.require('goog.testing.asserts');
    // Standard destructuring into aliases.
    const {clear, clone} = goog.require('goog.array');
    const {Rgb} = goog.require('goog.color');
    // Namespace-based destructuring into aliases in order to disambiguate.
    const {SomeType: FooSomeType} = goog.requireType('foo.types');
    const {clear: objectClear, clone: objectClone} = goog.require('goog.object');
    // goog.require without an alias in order to trigger side effects.
    /** @suppress {extraRequire} Initializes MyFramework. */
    goog.require('my.framework.initialization');

Discouraged:

    // If necessary to disambiguate, prefer PackageClass over SomeClass as it is
    // closer to the format of the module name.
    const SomeClass = goog.require('some.package.Class');

Disallowed:

    // Extra terms must come from the namespace.
    const MyClassForBizzing = goog.require('some.package.MyClass');
    // Alias must include the entire final namespace component.
    const MyClass = goog.require('some.package.MyClassForBizzing');
    // Alias must not mask native type (should be `const JspbMap` here).
    const Map = goog.require('jspb.Map');
    // Don't break goog.require lines over 80 columns.
    const SomeDataStructure =
        goog.require('proto.identical.package.identifiers.SomeDataStructure');
    // Alias must be based on the namespace.
    const randomName = goog.require('something.else');
    // Missing a space after the colon.
    const {Foo:FooProto} = goog.require('some.package.proto.Foo');
    // goog.requireType without an alias.
    goog.requireType('some.package.with.a.Type');


    /**
     * @param {!some.unimported.Dependency} param All external types used in JSDoc
     *     annotations must be goog.require'd, unless declared in externs.
     */
    function someFunction(param) {
      // goog.require lines must be at the top level before any other code.
      const alias = goog.require('my.long.name.alias');
      // ...
    }

### 3.7 The file's implementation {#file-implementation}

The actual implementation follows after all dependency information is
declared (separated by at least one blank line).

This may consist of any module-local declarations (constants, variables,
classes, functions, etc), as well as any exported symbols.

4 Formatting
------------

**Terminology Note**: *block-like construct* refers to the body of a
class, function, method, or brace-delimited block of code. Note that, by
[??](#features-array-literals) and [??](#features-object-literals), any
array or object literal may optionally be treated as if it were a
block-like construct.

Tip: Use `clang-format`. The JavaScript community has invested effort to
make sure clang-format "does the right thing" on JavaScript files.
`clang-format` has integration with several popular editors.

### 4.1 Braces {#formatting-braces}

#### 4.1.1 Braces are used for all control structures {#formatting-braces-all}

Braces are required for all control structures (i.e. `if`, `else`,
`for`, `do`, `while`, as well as any others), even if the body contains
only a single statement. The first statement of a non-empty block must
begin on its own line.

Disallowed:

    if (someVeryLongCondition())
      doSomething();

    for (let i = 0; i < foo.length; i++) bar(foo[i]);

**Exception**: A simple if statement that can fit entirely on a single
line with no wrapping (and that doesn't have an else) may be kept on a
single line with no braces when it improves readability. This is the
only case in which a control structure may omit braces and newlines.

    if (shortCondition()) foo();

#### 4.1.2 Nonempty blocks: K&R style {#formatting-nonempty-blocks}

Braces follow the Kernighan and Ritchie style ("[Egyptian
brackets](http://www.codinghorror.com/blog/2012/07/new-programming-jargon.html)")
for *nonempty* blocks and block-like constructs:

-   No line break before the opening brace.
-   Line break after the opening brace.
-   Line break before the closing brace.
-   Line break after the closing brace *if* that brace terminates a
    statement or the body of a function or class statement, or a class
    method. Specifically, there is *no* line break after the brace if it
    is followed by `else`, `catch`, `while`, or a comma, semicolon, or
    right-parenthesis.

Example:

    class InnerClass {
      constructor() {}

      /** @param {number} foo */
      method(foo) {
        if (condition(foo)) {
          try {
            // Note: this might fail.
            something();
          } catch (err) {
            recover();
          }
        }
      }
    }

#### 4.1.3 Empty blocks: may be concise {#formatting-empty-blocks}

An empty block or block-like construct *may* be closed immediately after
it is opened, with no characters, space, or line break in between (i.e.
`{}`), **unless** it is a part of a *multi-block statement* (one that
directly contains multiple blocks: `if`/`else` or
`try`/`catch`/`finally`).

Example:

    function doNothing() {}

Disallowed:

    if (condition) {
      // …
    } else if (otherCondition) {} else {
      // …
    }

    try {
      // …
    } catch (e) {}

### 4.2 Block indentation: +2 spaces {#formatting-block-indentation}

Each time a new block or block-like construct is opened, the indent
increases by two spaces. When the block ends, the indent returns to the
previous indent level. The indent level applies to both code and
comments throughout the block. (See the example in
[??](#formatting-nonempty-blocks)).

#### 4.2.1 Array literals: optionally "block-like" {#formatting-array-literals}

Any array literal may optionally be formatted as if it were a
"block-like construct." For example, the following are all valid
(**not** an exhaustive list):

    const a = [
      0,
      1,
      2,
    ];

    const b =
        [0, 1, 2];

    const c = [0, 1, 2];

    someMethod(foo, [
      0, 1, 2,
    ], bar);

Other combinations are allowed, particularly when emphasizing semantic
groupings between elements, but should not be used only to reduce the
vertical size of larger arrays.

#### 4.2.2 Object literals: optionally "block-like" {#formatting-object-literals}

Any object literal may optionally be formatted as if it were a
"block-like construct." The same examples apply as
[??](#formatting-array-literals). For example, the following are all
valid (**not** an exhaustive list):

    const a = {
      a: 0,
      b: 1,
    };

    const b =
        {a: 0, b: 1};

    const c = {a: 0, b: 1};

    someMethod(foo, {
      a: 0, b: 1,
    }, bar);

#### 4.2.3 Class literals {#formatting-class-literals}

Class literals (whether declarations or expressions) are indented as
blocks. Do not add semicolons after methods, or after the closing brace
of a class *declaration* (statements---such as assignments---that
contain class *expressions* are still terminated with a semicolon). Use
the `extends` keyword, but not the `@extends` JSDoc annotation unless
the class extends a templatized type.

Example:

    class Foo {
      constructor() {
        /** @type {number} */
        this.x = 42;
      }

      /** @return {number} */
      method() {
        return this.x;
      }
    }
    Foo.Empty = class {};

    /** @extends {Foo<string>} */
    foo.Bar = class extends Foo {
      /** @override */
      method() {
        return super.method() / 2;
      }
    };

    /** @interface */
    class Frobnicator {
      /** @param {string} message */
      frobnicate(message) {}
    }

#### 4.2.4 Function expressions {#formatting-function-expressions}

When declaring an anonymous function in the list of arguments for a
function call, the body of the function is indented two spaces more than
the preceding indentation depth.

Example:

    prefix.something.reallyLongFunctionName('whatever', (a1, a2) => {
      // Indent the function body +2 relative to indentation depth
      // of the 'prefix' statement one line above.
      if (a1.equals(a2)) {
        someOtherLongFunctionName(a1);
      } else {
        andNowForSomethingCompletelyDifferent(a2.parrot);
      }
    });

    some.reallyLongFunctionCall(arg1, arg2, arg3)
        .thatsWrapped()
        .then((result) => {
          // Indent the function body +2 relative to the indentation depth
          // of the '.then()' call.
          if (result) {
            result.use();
          }
        });

#### 4.2.5 Switch statements {#formatting-switch-statements}

As with any other block, the contents of a switch block are indented +2.

After a switch label, a newline appears, and the indentation level is
increased +2, exactly as if a block were being opened. An explicit block
may be used if required by lexical scoping. The following switch label
returns to the previous indentation level, as if a block had been
closed.

A blank line is optional between a `break` and the following case.

Example:

    switch (animal) {
      case Animal.BANDERSNATCH:
        handleBandersnatch();
        break;

      case Animal.JABBERWOCK:
        handleJabberwock();
        break;

      default:
        throw new Error('Unknown animal');
    }

### 4.3 Statements {#formatting-statements}

#### 4.3.1 One statement per line {#formatting-one-statement-perline}

Each statement is followed by a line-break.

#### 4.3.2 Semicolons are required {#formatting-semicolons-are-required}

Every statement must be terminated with a semicolon. Relying on
automatic semicolon insertion is forbidden.

### 4.4 Column limit: 80 {#formatting-column-limit}

JavaScript code has a column limit of 80 characters. Except as noted
below, any line that would exceed this limit must be line-wrapped, as
explained in [??](#formatting-line-wrapping).

**Exceptions:**

1.  `goog.module`, `goog.require` and `goog.requireType` statements (see
    [??](#file-goog-module) and [??](#file-goog-require)).
2.  ES module `import` and `export from` statements (see
    [??](#es-module-imports) and [??](#es-module-export-from)).
3.  Lines where obeying the column limit is not possible or would hinder
    discoverability. Examples include:
    -   A long URL which should be clickable in source.
    -   A shell command intended to be copied-and-pasted.
    -   A long string literal which may need to be copied or searched
        for wholly (e.g., a long file path).

### 4.5 Line-wrapping {#formatting-line-wrapping}

**Terminology Note**: *Line wrapping* is breaking a chunk of code into
multiple lines to obey column limit, where the chunk could otherwise
legally fit in a single line.

There is no comprehensive, deterministic formula showing *exactly* how
to line-wrap in every situation. Very often there are several valid ways
to line-wrap the same piece of code.

Note: While the typical reason for line-wrapping is to avoid overflowing
the column limit, even code that would in fact fit within the column
limit may be line-wrapped at the author\'s discretion.

Tip: Extracting a method or local variable may solve the problem without
the need to line-wrap.

#### 4.5.1 Where to break {#formatting-where-to-break}

The prime directive of line-wrapping is: prefer to break at a **higher
syntactic level**.

Preferred:

    currentEstimate =
        calc(currentEstimate + x * currentEstimate) /
            2.0;

Discouraged:

    currentEstimate = calc(currentEstimate + x *
        currentEstimate) / 2.0;

In the preceding example, the syntactic levels from highest to lowest
are as follows: assignment, division, function call, parameters, number
constant.

Operators are wrapped as follows:

1.  When a line is broken at an operator the break comes after the
    symbol. (Note that this is not the same practice used in Google
    style for Java.)
    1.  This does not apply to the "dot" (`.`), which is not actually an
        operator.
2.  A method or constructor name stays attached to the open parenthesis
    (`(`) that follows it.
3.  A comma (`,`) stays attached to the token that precedes it.

> Note: The primary goal for line wrapping is to have clear code, not
> necessarily code that fits in the smallest number of lines.

#### 4.5.2 Indent continuation lines at least +4 spaces {#formatting-indent}

When line-wrapping, each line after the first (each *continuation line*)
is indented at least +4 from the original line, unless it falls under
the rules of block indentation.

When there are multiple continuation lines, indentation may be varied
beyond +4 as appropriate. In general, continuation lines at a deeper
syntactic level are indented by larger multiples of 4, and two lines use
the same indentation level if and only if they begin with syntactically
parallel elements.

[??](#formatting-horizontal-alignment) addresses the discouraged
practice of using a variable number of spaces to align certain tokens
with previous lines.

### 4.6 Whitespace {#formatting-whitespace}

#### 4.6.1 Vertical whitespace {#formatting-vertical-whitespace}

A single blank line appears:

1.  Between consecutive methods in a class or object literal
    1.  Exception: A blank line between two consecutive properties
        definitions in an object literal (with no other code between
        them) is optional. Such blank lines are used as needed to create
        *logical groupings* of fields.
2.  Within method bodies, sparingly to create *logical groupings* of
    statements. Blank lines at the start or end of a function body are
    not allowed.
3.  *Optionally* before the first or after the last method in a class or
    object literal (neither encouraged nor discouraged).
4.  As required by other sections of this document (e.g.
    [??](#file-goog-require)).

*Multiple* consecutive blank lines are permitted, but never required
(nor encouraged).

#### 4.6.2 Horizontal whitespace {#formatting-horizontal-whitespace}

Use of horizontal whitespace depends on location, and falls into three
broad categories: *leading* (at the start of a line), *trailing* (at the
end of a line), and *internal*. Leading whitespace (i.e., indentation)
is addressed elsewhere. Trailing whitespace is forbidden.

Beyond where required by the language or other style rules, and apart
from literals, comments, and JSDoc, a single internal ASCII space also
appears in the following places **only**.

1.  Separating any reserved word (such as `if`, `for`, or `catch`)
    except for `function` and `super`, from an open parenthesis (`(`)
    that follows it on that line.
2.  Separating any reserved word (such as `else` or `catch`) from a
    closing curly brace (`}`) that precedes it on that line.
3.  Before any open curly brace (`{`), with two exceptions:
    1.  Before an object literal that is the first argument of a
        function or the first element in an array literal (e.g.
        `foo({a: [{c: d}]})`).
    2.  In a template expansion, as it is forbidden by the language
        (e.g. valid: `` `ab${1 + 2}cd` ``, invalid:
        `` `xy$ {3}z` ``{.badcode}).
4.  On both sides of any binary or ternary operator.
5.  After a comma (`,`) or semicolon (`;`). Note that spaces are *never*
    allowed before these characters.
6.  After the colon (`:`) in an object literal.
7.  On both sides of the double slash (`//`) that begins an end-of-line
    comment. Here, multiple spaces are allowed, but not required.
8.  After an open-block comment character and on both sides of close
    characters (e.g. for short-form type declarations, casts, and
    parameter name comments: `this.foo = /** @type {number} */ (bar)`;
    or `function(/** string */ foo) {`; or `baz(/* buzz= */ true)`).

#### 4.6.3 Horizontal alignment: discouraged {#formatting-horizontal-alignment}

**Terminology Note**: *Horizontal alignment* is the practice of adding a
variable number of additional spaces in your code with the goal of
making certain tokens appear directly below certain other tokens on
previous lines.

This practice is permitted, but it is **generally discouraged** by
Google Style. It is not even required to *maintain* horizontal alignment
in places where it was already used.

Here is an example without alignment, followed by one with alignment.
Both are allowed, but the latter is discouraged:

    {
      tiny: 42, // this is great
      longer: 435, // this too
    };

    {
      tiny:   42,  // permitted, but future edits
      longer: 435, // may leave it unaligned
    };

Tip: Alignment can aid readability, but it creates problems for future
maintenance. Consider a future change that needs to touch just one line.
This change may leave the formerly-pleasing formatting mangled, and that
is allowed. More often it prompts the coder (perhaps you) to adjust
whitespace on nearby lines as well, possibly triggering a cascading
series of reformattings. That one-line change now has a "blast radius."
This can at worst result in pointless busywork, but at best it still
corrupts version history information, slows down reviewers and
exacerbates merge conflicts.

#### 4.6.4 Function arguments {#formatting-function-arguments}

Prefer to put all function arguments on the same line as the function
name. If doing so would exceed the 80-column limit, the arguments must
be line-wrapped in a readable way. To save space, you may wrap as close
to 80 as possible, or put each argument on its own line to enhance
readability. Indentation should be four spaces. Aligning to the
parenthesis is allowed, but discouraged. Below are the most common
patterns for argument wrapping:

    // Arguments start on a new line, indented four spaces. Preferred when the
    // arguments don't fit on the same line with the function name (or the keyword
    // "function") but fit entirely on the second line. Works with very long
    // function names, survives renaming without reindenting, low on space.
    doSomething(
        descriptiveArgumentOne, descriptiveArgumentTwo, descriptiveArgumentThree) {
      // …
    }

    // If the argument list is longer, wrap at 80. Uses less vertical space,
    // but violates the rectangle rule and is thus not recommended.
    doSomething(veryDescriptiveArgumentNumberOne, veryDescriptiveArgumentTwo,
        tableModelEventHandlerProxy, artichokeDescriptorAdapterIterator) {
      // …
    }

    // Four-space, one argument per line.  Works with long function names,
    // survives renaming, and emphasizes each argument.
    doSomething(
        veryDescriptiveArgumentNumberOne,
        veryDescriptiveArgumentTwo,
        tableModelEventHandlerProxy,
        artichokeDescriptorAdapterIterator) {
      // …
    }

### 4.7 Grouping parentheses: recommended {#formatting-grouping-parentheses}

Optional grouping parentheses are omitted only when the author and
reviewer agree that there is no reasonable chance that the code will be
misinterpreted without them, nor would they have made the code easier to
read. It is *not* reasonable to assume that every reader has the entire
operator precedence table memorized.

Do not use unnecessary parentheses around the entire expression
following `delete`, `typeof`, `void`, `return`, `throw`, `case`, `in`,
`of`, or `yield`.

Parentheses are required for type casts: `/** @type {!Foo} */ (foo)`.

### 4.8 Comments {#formatting-comments}

This section addresses *implementation comments*. JSDoc is addressed
separately in [??](#jsdoc).

#### 4.8.1 Block comment style {#formatting-block-comment-style}

Block comments are indented at the same level as the surrounding code.
They may be in `/* … */` or `//`-style. For multi-line `/* … */`
comments, subsequent lines must start with \* aligned with the `*` on
the previous line, to make comments obvious with no extra context.

    /*
     * This is
     * okay.
     */

    // And so
    // is this.

    /* This is fine, too. */

Comments are not enclosed in boxes drawn with asterisks or other
characters.

Do not use JSDoc (`/** … */`) for implementation comments.

#### 4.8.2 Parameter Name Comments {#formatting-param-name-comments}

"Parameter name" comments should be used whenever the value and method
name do not sufficiently convey the meaning, and refactoring the method
to be clearer is infeasible . Their preferred format is before the value
with "=":

    someFunction(obviousParam, /* shouldRender= */ true, /* name= */ 'hello');

For consistency with surrounding code you may put them after the value
without "=":

    someFunction(obviousParam, true /* shouldRender */, 'hello' /* name */);

5 Language features
-------------------

JavaScript includes many dubious (and even dangerous) features. This
section delineates which features may or may not be used, and any
additional constraints on their use.

### 5.1 Local variable declarations {#features-local-variable-declarations}

#### 5.1.1 Use `const` and `let` {#features-use-const-and-let}

Declare all local variables with either `const` or `let`. Use const by
default, unless a variable needs to be reassigned. The `var`{.badcode}
keyword must not be used.

#### 5.1.2 One variable per declaration {#features-one-variable-per-declaration}

Every local variable declaration declares only one variable:
declarations such as `let a = 1, b = 2;`{.badcode} are not used.

#### 5.1.3 Declared when needed, initialized as soon as possible {#features-declared-when-needed}

Local variables are **not** habitually declared at the start of their
containing block or block-like construct. Instead, local variables are
declared close to the point they are first used (within reason), to
minimize their scope.

#### 5.1.4 Declare types as needed {#features-declare-types-as-needed}

JSDoc type annotations may be added either on the line above the
declaration, or else inline before the variable name if no other JSDoc
is present.

Example:

    const /** !Array<number> */ data = [];

    /**
     * Some description.
     * @type {!Array<number>}
     */
    const data = [];

Mixing inline and JSDoc styles is not allowed: the compiler will only
process the first JsDoc and the inline annotations will be lost.

    /** Some description. */
    const /** !Array<number> */ data = [];

Tip: There are many cases where the compiler can infer a templatized
type but not its parameters. This is particularly the case when the
initializing literal or constructor call does not include any values of
the template parameter type (e.g., empty arrays, objects, `Map`s, or
`Set`s), or if the variable is modified in a closure. Local variable
type annotations are particularly helpful in these cases since otherwise
the compiler will infer the template parameter as unknown.

### 5.2 Array literals {#features-array-literals}

#### 5.2.1 Use trailing commas {#features-arrays-trailing-comma}

Include a trailing comma whenever there is a line break between the
final element and the closing bracket.

Example:

    const values = [
      'first value',
      'second value',
    ];

#### 5.2.2 Do not use the variadic `Array` constructor {#features-arrays-ctor}

The constructor is error-prone if arguments are added or removed. Use a
literal instead.

Disallowed:

    const a1 = new Array(x1, x2, x3);
    const a2 = new Array(x1, x2);
    const a3 = new Array(x1);
    const a4 = new Array();

This works as expected except for the third case: if `x1` is a whole
number then `a3` is an array of size `x1` where all elements are
`undefined`. If `x1` is any other number, then an exception will be
thrown, and if it is anything else then it will be a single-element
array.

Instead, write

    const a1 = [x1, x2, x3];
    const a2 = [x1, x2];
    const a3 = [x1];
    const a4 = [];

Explicitly allocating an array of a given length using
`new Array(length)` is allowed when appropriate.

#### 5.2.3 Non-numeric properties {#features-arrays-non-numeric-properties}

Do not define or use non-numeric properties on an array (other than
`length`). Use a `Map` (or `Object`) instead.

#### 5.2.4 Destructuring {#features-arrays-destructuring}

Array literals may be used on the left-hand side of an assignment to
perform destructuring (such as when unpacking multiple values from a
single array or iterable). A final "rest" element may be included (with
no space between the `...` and the variable name). Elements should be
omitted if they are unused.

    const [a, b, c, ...rest] = generateResults();
    let [, b,, d] = someArray;

Destructuring may also be used for function parameters (note that a
parameter name is required but ignored). Always specify `[]` as the
default value if a destructured array parameter is optional, and provide
default values on the left hand side:

    /** @param {!Array<number>=} param1 */
    function optionalDestructuring([a = 4, b = 2] = []) { … };

Disallowed:

    function badDestructuring([a, b] = [4, 2]) { … };

Tip: For (un)packing multiple values into a function's parameter or
return, prefer object destructuring to array destructuring when
possible, as it allows naming the individual elements and specifying a
different type for each.

#### 5.2.5 Spread operator {#features-arrays-spread-operator}

Array literals may include the spread operator (`...`) to flatten
elements out of one or more other iterables. The spread operator should
be used instead of more awkward constructs with `Array.prototype`. There
is no space after the `...`.

Example:

    [...foo]   // preferred over Array.prototype.slice.call(foo)
    [...foo, ...bar]   // preferred over foo.concat(bar)

### 5.3 Object literals {#features-object-literals}

#### 5.3.1 Use trailing commas {#features-objects-use-trailing-comma}

Include a trailing comma whenever there is a line break between the
final property and the closing brace.

#### 5.3.2 Do not use the `Object` constructor {#features-objects-ctor}

While `Object` does not have the same problems as `Array`, it is still
disallowed for consistency. Use an object literal (`{}` or
`{a: 0, b: 1, c: 2}`) instead.

#### 5.3.3 Do not mix quoted and unquoted keys {#features-objects-mixing-keys}

Object literals may represent either *structs* (with unquoted keys
and/or symbols) or *dicts* (with quoted and/or computed keys). Do not
mix these key types in a single object literal.

Disallowed:

    {
      width: 42, // struct-style unquoted key
      'maxWidth': 43, // dict-style quoted key
    }

This also extends to passing the property name to functions, like
`hasOwnProperty`. In particular, doing so will break in compiled code
because the compiler cannot rename/obfuscate the string literal.

Disallowed:

    /** @type {{width: number, maxWidth: (number|undefined)}} */
    const o = {width: 42};
    if (o.hasOwnProperty('maxWidth')) {
      ...
    }

This is best implemented as:

    /** @type {{width: number, maxWidth: (number|undefined)}} */
    const o = {width: 42};
    if (o.maxWidth != null) {
      ...
    }

#### 5.3.4 Computed property names {#features-objects-computed-property-names}

Computed property names (e.g., `{['key' + foo()]: 42}`) are allowed, and
are considered dict-style (quoted) keys (i.e., must not be mixed with
non-quoted keys) unless the computed property is a
[symbol](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Symbol)
(e.g., `[Symbol.iterator]`). Enum values may also be used for computed
keys, but should not be mixed with non-enum keys in the same literal.

#### 5.3.5 Method shorthand {#features-objects-method-shorthand}

Methods can be defined on object literals using the method shorthand
(`{method() {… }}`) in place of a colon immediately followed by a
`function` or arrow function literal.

Example:

    return {
      stuff: 'candy',
      method() {
        return this.stuff;  // Returns 'candy'
      },
    };

Note that `this` in a method shorthand or `function` refers to the
object literal itself whereas `this` in an arrow function refers to the
scope outside the object literal.

Example:

    class {
      getObjectLiteral() {
        this.stuff = 'fruit';
        return {
          stuff: 'candy',
          method: () => this.stuff,  // Returns 'fruit'
        };
      }
    }

#### 5.3.6 Shorthand properties {#features-objects-shorthand-properties}

Shorthand properties are allowed on object literals.

Example:

    const foo = 1;
    const bar = 2;
    const obj = {
      foo,
      bar,
      method() { return this.foo + this.bar; },
    };
    assertEquals(3, obj.method());

#### 5.3.7 Destructuring {#features-objects-destructuring}

Object destructuring patterns may be used on the left-hand side of an
assignment to perform destructuring and unpack multiple values from a
single object.

Destructured objects may also be used as function parameters, but should
be kept as simple as possible: a single level of unquoted shorthand
properties. Deeper levels of nesting and computed properties may not be
used in parameter destructuring. Specify any default values in the
left-hand-side of the destructured parameter
(`{str = 'some default'} = {}`, rather than
`{str} = {str: 'some default'}`{.badcode}), and if a destructured object
is itself optional, it must default to `{}`. The JSDoc for the
destructured parameter may be given any name (the name is unused but is
required by the compiler).

Example:

    /**
     * @param {string} ordinary
     * @param {{num: (number|undefined), str: (string|undefined)}=} param1
     *     num: The number of times to do something.
     *     str: A string to do stuff to.
     */
    function destructured(ordinary, {num, str = 'some default'} = {})

Disallowed:

    /** @param {{x: {num: (number|undefined), str: (string|undefined)}}} param1 */
    function nestedTooDeeply({x: {num, str}}) {};
    /** @param {{num: (number|undefined), str: (string|undefined)}=} param1 */
    function nonShorthandProperty({num: a, str: b} = {}) {};
    /** @param {{a: number, b: number}} param1 */
    function computedKey({a, b, [a + b]: c}) {};
    /** @param {{a: number, b: string}=} param1 */
    function nontrivialDefault({a, b} = {a: 2, b: 4}) {};

Destructuring may also be used for `goog.require` statements, and in
this case must not be wrapped: the entire statement occupies one line,
regardless of how long it is (see [??](#file-goog-require)).

#### 5.3.8 Enums {#features-objects-enums}

Enumerations are defined by adding the `@enum` annotation to an object
literal. Additional properties may not be added to an enum after it is
defined. Enums must be constant, and all enum values must be deeply
immutable.

    /**
     * Supported temperature scales.
     * @enum {string}
     */
    const TemperatureScale = {
      CELSIUS: 'celsius',
      FAHRENHEIT: 'fahrenheit',
    };

    /**
     * An enum with two options.
     * @enum {number}
     */
    const Option = {
      /** The option used shall have been the first. */
      FIRST_OPTION: 1,
      /** The second among two options. */
      SECOND_OPTION: 2,
    };

### 5.4 Classes {#features-classes}

#### 5.4.1 Constructors {#features-classes-constructors}

Constructors are optional. Subclass constructors must call `super()`
before setting any fields or otherwise accessing `this`. Interfaces
should declare non-method properties in the constructor.

#### 5.4.2 Fields {#features-classes-fields}

Set all of a concrete object's fields (i.e. all properties other than
methods) in the constructor. Annotate fields that are never reassigned
with `@const` (these need not be deeply immutable). Annotate non-public
fields with the proper visibility annotation (`@private`, `@protected`,
`@package`), and end all `@private` fields\' names with an underscore.
Fields are never set on a concrete class\' `prototype`.

Example:

    class Foo {
      constructor() {
        /** @private @const {!Bar} */
        this.bar_ = computeBar();

        /** @protected @const {!Baz} */
        this.baz = computeBaz();
      }
    }

Tip: Properties should never be added to or removed from an instance
after the constructor is finished, since it significantly hinders VMs'
ability to optimize. If necessary, fields that are initialized later
should be explicitly set to `undefined` in the constructor to prevent
later shape changes. Adding `@struct` to an object will check that
undeclared properties are not added/accessed. Classes have this added by
default.

#### 5.4.3 Computed properties {#features-classes-computed-properties}

Computed properties may only be used in classes when the property is a
symbol. Dict-style properties (that is, quoted or computed non-symbol
keys, as defined in [??](#features-objects-mixing-keys)) are not
allowed. A `[Symbol.iterator]` method should be defined for any classes
that are logically iterable. Beyond this, `Symbol` should be used
sparingly.

Tip: be careful of using any other built-in symbols (e.g.,
`Symbol.isConcatSpreadable`) as they are not polyfilled by the compiler
and will therefore not work in older browsers.

#### 5.4.4 Static methods {#features-classes-static-methods}

Where it does not interfere with readability, prefer module-local
functions over private static methods.

Static methods should only be called on the base class itself. Static
methods should not be called on variables containing a dynamic instance
that may be either the constructor or a subclass constructor (and must
be defined with `@nocollapse` if this is done), and must not be called
directly on a subclass that doesn't define the method itself.

Disallowed:

    class Base { /** @nocollapse */ static foo() {} }
    class Sub extends Base {}
    function callFoo(cls) { cls.foo(); }  // discouraged: don't call static methods dynamically
    Sub.foo();  // Disallowed: don't call static methods on subclasses that don't define it themselves

#### 5.4.5 Old-style class declarations {#features-classes-old-style}

While ES6 classes are preferred, there are cases where ES6 classes may
not be feasible. For example:

1.  If there exist or will exist subclasses, including frameworks that
    create subclasses, that cannot be immediately changed to use ES6
    class syntax. If such a class were to use ES6 syntax, all downstream
    subclasses not using ES6 class syntax would need to be modified.

2.  Frameworks that require a known `this` value before calling the
    superclass constructor, since constructors with ES6 super classes do
    not have access to the instance `this` value until the call to
    `super` returns.

In all other ways the style guide still applies to this code: `let`,
`const`, default parameters, rest, and arrow functions should all be
used when appropriate.

`goog.defineClass` allows for a class-like definition similar to ES6
class syntax:

    let C = goog.defineClass(S, {
      /**
       * @param {string} value
       */
      constructor(value) {
        S.call(this, 2);
        /** @const */
        this.prop = value;
      },

      /**
       * @param {string} param
       * @return {number}
       */
      method(param) {
        return 0;
      },
    });

Alternatively, while `goog.defineClass` should be preferred for all new
code, more traditional syntax is also allowed.

    /**
      * @constructor @extends {S}
      * @param {string} value
      */
    function C(value) {
      S.call(this, 2);
      /** @const */
      this.prop = value;
    }
    goog.inherits(C, S);

    /**
     * @param {string} param
     * @return {number}
     */
    C.prototype.method = function(param) {
      return 0;
    };

Per-instance properties should be defined in the constructor after the
call to the super class constructor, if there is a super class. Methods
should be defined on the prototype of the constructor.

Defining constructor prototype hierarchies correctly is harder than it
first appears! For that reason, it is best to use `goog.inherits` from
[the Closure Library](http://code.google.com/closure/library/) .

#### 5.4.6 Do not manipulate `prototype`s directly {#features-classes-prototypes}

The `class` keyword allows clearer and more readable class definitions
than defining `prototype` properties. Ordinary implementation code has
no business manipulating these objects, though they are still useful for
defining classes as defined in [??](#features-classes-old-style). Mixins
and modifying the prototypes of builtin objects are explicitly
forbidden.

**Exception**: Framework code (such as Polymer, or Angular) may need to
use `prototype`s, and should not resort to even-worse workarounds to
avoid doing so.

#### 5.4.7 Getters and Setters {#features-classes-getters-and-setters}

Do not use [JavaScript getter and setter
properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions/get).
They are potentially surprising and difficult to reason about, and have
limited support in the compiler. Provide ordinary methods instead.

**Exception**: there are situations where defining a getter or setter is
unavoidable (e.g. data binding frameworks such as Angular and Polymer,
or for compatibility with external APIs that cannot be adjusted). In
these cases only, getters and setters may be used *with caution*,
provided they are defined with the `get` and `set` shorthand method
keywords or `Object.defineProperties` (not `Object.defineProperty`,
which interferes with property renaming). Getters **must not** change
observable state.

Disallowed:

    class Foo {
      get next() { return this.nextId++; }
    }

#### 5.4.8 Overriding toString {#features-classes-overriding-tostring}

The `toString` method may be overridden, but must always succeed and
never have visible side effects.

Tip: Beware, in particular, of calling other methods from toString,
since exceptional conditions could lead to infinite loops.

#### 5.4.9 Interfaces {#features-classes-interfaces}

Interfaces may be declared with `@interface` or `@record`. Interfaces
declared with `@record` can be explicitly (i.e. via `@implements`) or
implicitly implemented by a class or object literal.

All non-static method bodies on an interface must be empty blocks.
Fields must be declared as uninitialized members in the class
constructor.

Example:

    /**
     * Something that can frobnicate.
     * @record
     */
    class Frobnicator {
      constructor() {
        /** @type {number} The number of attempts before giving up. */
        this.attempts;
      }

      /**
       * Performs the frobnication according to the given strategy.
       * @param {!FrobnicationStrategy} strategy
       */
      frobnicate(strategy) {}
    }

#### 5.4.10 Abstract Classes {#features-classes-abstract-classes}

Use abstract classes when appropriate. Abstract classes and methods must
be annotated with `@abstract`. Do not use `goog.abstractMethod`. See
[abstract classes and
methods](https://github.com/google/closure-compiler/wiki/@abstract-classes-and-methods).

### 5.5 Functions {#features-functions}

#### 5.5.1 Top-level functions {#features-functions-top-level-functions}

Top-level functions may be defined directly on the `exports` object, or
else declared locally and optionally exported. See
[??](#file-goog-module-exports) for more on exports.

Examples:

    /** @param {string} str */
    exports.processString = (str) => {
      // Process the string.
    };

    /** @param {string} str */
    const processString = (str) => {
      // Process the string.
    };

    exports = {processString};

#### 5.5.2 Nested functions and closures {#features-functions-nested-functions}

Functions may contain nested function definitions. If it is useful to
give the function a name, it should be assigned to a local `const`.

#### 5.5.3 Arrow functions {#features-functions-arrow-functions}

Arrow functions provide a concise function syntax and simplify scoping
`this` for nested functions. Prefer arrow functions over the `function`
keyword, particularly for nested functions (but see
[??](#features-objects-method-shorthand)).

Prefer arrow functions over other `this` scoping approaches such as
`f.bind(this)`, `goog.bind(f, this)`, and `const self = this`. Arrow
functions are particularly useful for calling into callbacks as they
permit explicitly specifying which parameters to pass to the callback
whereas binding will blindly pass along all parameters.

The left-hand side of the arrow contains zero or more parameters.
Parentheses around the parameters are optional if there is only a single
non-destructured parameter. When parentheses are used, inline parameter
types may be specified (see [??](#jsdoc-method-and-function-comments)).

Tip: Always using parentheses even for single-parameter arrow functions
can avoid situations where adding parameters, but forgetting to add
parentheses, may result in parseable code which no longer works as
intended.

The right-hand side of the arrow contains the body of the function. By
default the body is a block statement (zero or more statements
surrounded by curly braces). The body may also be an implicitly returned
single expression if either: the program logic requires returning a
value, or the `void` operator precedes a single function or method call
(using `void` ensures `undefined` is returned, prevents leaking values,
and communicates intent). The single expression form is preferred if it
improves readability (e.g., for short or simple expressions).

Examples:

    /**
     * Arrow functions can be documented just like normal functions.
     * @param {number} numParam A number to add.
     * @param {string} strParam Another number to add that happens to be a string.
     * @return {number} The sum of the two parameters.
     */
    const moduleLocalFunc = (numParam, strParam) => numParam + Number(strParam);

    // Uses the single expression syntax with `void` because the program logic does
    // not require returning a value.
    getValue((result) => void alert(`Got ${result}`));

    class CallbackExample {
      constructor() {
        /** @private {number} */
        this.cachedValue_ = 0;

        // For inline callbacks, you can use inline typing for parameters.
        // Uses a block statement because the value of the single expression should
        // not be returned and the expression is not a single function call.
        getNullableValue((/** ?number */ result) => {
          this.cachedValue_ = result == null ? 0 : result;
        });
      }
    }

Disallowed:

    /**
     * A function with no params and no returned value.
     * This single expression body usage is illegal because the program logic does
     * not require returning a value and we're missing the `void` operator.
     */
    const moduleLocalFunc = () => anotherFunction();

#### 5.5.4 Generators {#features-functions-generators}

Generators enable a number of useful abstractions and may be used as
needed.

When defining generator functions, attach the `*` to the `function`
keyword when present, and separate it with a space from the name of the
function. When using delegating yields, attach the `*` to the `yield`
keyword.

Example:

    /** @return {!Iterator<number>} */
    function* gen1() {
      yield 42;
    }

    /** @return {!Iterator<number>} */
    const gen2 = function*() {
      yield* gen1();
    }

    class SomeClass {
      /** @return {!Iterator<number>} */
      * gen() {
        yield 42;
      }
    }

#### 5.5.5 Parameter and return types {#features-functions-parameter-return-types}

Function parameters and return types should usually be documented with
JSDoc annotations. See [??](#jsdoc-method-and-function-comments) for
more information.

##### 5.5.5.1 Default parameters {#features-functions-default-parameters}

Optional parameters are permitted using the equals operator in the
parameter list. Optional parameters must include spaces on both sides of
the equals operator, be named exactly like required parameters (i.e.,
not prefixed with `opt_`), use the `=` suffix in their JSDoc type, come
after required parameters, and not use initializers that produce
observable side effects. All optional parameters for concrete functions
must have default values, even if that value is `undefined`. In contrast
to concrete functions, abstract and interface methods must omit default
parameter values.

Example:

    /**
     * @param {string} required This parameter is always needed.
     * @param {string=} optional This parameter can be omitted.
     * @param {!Node=} node Another optional parameter.
     */
    function maybeDoSomething(required, optional = '', node = undefined) {}

    /** @interface */
    class MyInterface {
      /**
       * Interface and abstract methods must omit default parameter values.
       * @param {string=} optional
       */
      someMethod(optional) {}
    }

Use default parameters sparingly. Prefer destructuring (as in
[??](#features-objects-destructuring)) to create readable APIs when
there are more than a small handful of optional parameters that do not
have a natural order.

Note: Unlike Python\'s default parameters, it is okay to use
initializers that return new mutable objects (such as `{}` or `[]`)
because the initializer is evaluated each time the default value is
used, so a single object won\'t be shared across invocations.

Tip: While arbitrary expressions including function calls may be used as
initializers, these should be kept as simple as possible. Avoid
initializers that expose shared mutable state, as that can easily
introduce unintended coupling between function calls.

##### 5.5.5.2 Rest parameters {#features-functions-rest-parameters}

Use a *rest* parameter instead of accessing `arguments`. Rest parameters
are typed with a `...` prefix in their JSDoc. The rest parameter must be
the last parameter in the list. There is no space between the `...` and
the parameter name. Do not name the rest parameter `var_args`. Never
name a local variable or parameter `arguments`, which confusingly
shadows the built-in name.

Example:

    /**
     * @param {!Array<string>} array This is an ordinary parameter.
     * @param {...number} numbers The remainder of arguments are all numbers.
     */
    function variadic(array, ...numbers) {}

#### 5.5.6 Generics {#features-functions-generics}

Declare generic functions and methods when necessary with
`@template TYPE` in the JSDoc above the function or method definition.

#### 5.5.7 Spread operator {#features-functions-spread-operator}

Function calls may use the spread operator (`...`). Prefer the spread
operator to `Function.prototype.apply` when an array or iterable is
unpacked into multiple parameters of a variadic function. There is no
space after the `...`.

Example:

    function myFunction(...elements) {}
    myFunction(...array, ...iterable, ...generator());

### 5.6 String literals {#features-string-literals}

#### 5.6.1 Use single quotes {#features-strings-use-single-quotes}

Ordinary string literals are delimited with single quotes (`'`), rather
than double quotes (`"`).

Tip: if a string contains a single quote character, consider using a
template string to avoid having to escape the quote.

Ordinary string literals may not span multiple lines.

#### 5.6.2 Template literals {#features-strings-template-strings}

Use template literals (delimited with `` ` ``) over complex string
concatenation, particularly if multiple string literals are involved.
Template literals may span multiple lines.

If a template literal spans multiple lines, it does not need to follow
the indentation of the enclosing block, though it may if the added
whitespace does not matter.

Example:

    function arithmetic(a, b) {
      return `Here is a table of arithmetic operations:
    ${a} + ${b} = ${a + b}
    ${a} - ${b} = ${a - b}
    ${a} * ${b} = ${a * b}
    ${a} / ${b} = ${a / b}`;
    }

#### 5.6.3 No line continuations {#features-strings-no-line-continuations}

Do not use *line continuations* (that is, ending a line inside a string
literal with a backslash) in either ordinary or template string
literals. Even though ES5 allows this, it can lead to tricky errors if
any trailing whitespace comes after the slash, and is less obvious to
readers.

Disallowed:

    const longString = 'This is a very long string that far exceeds the 80 \
        column limit. It unfortunately contains long stretches of spaces due \
        to how the continued lines are indented.';

Instead, write

    const longString = 'This is a very long string that far exceeds the 80 ' +
        'column limit. It does not contain long stretches of spaces since ' +
        'the concatenated strings are cleaner.';

### 5.7 Number literals {#features-number-literals}

Numbers may be specified in decimal, hex, octal, or binary. Use exactly
`0x`, `0o`, and `0b` prefixes, with lowercase letters, for hex, octal,
and binary, respectively. Never include a leading zero unless it is
immediately followed by `x`, `o`, or `b`.

### 5.8 Control structures {#features-control-structures}

#### 5.8.1 For loops {#features-for-loops}

With ES6, the language now has three different kinds of `for` loops. All
may be used, though `for`-`of` loops should be preferred when possible.

`for`-`in` loops may only be used on dict-style objects (see
[??](#features-objects-mixing-keys)), and should not be used to iterate
over an array. `Object.prototype.hasOwnProperty` should be used in
`for`-`in` loops to exclude unwanted prototype properties. Prefer
`for`-`of` and `Object.keys` over `for`-`in` when possible.

#### 5.8.2 Exceptions {#features-exceptions}

Exceptions are an important part of the language and should be used
whenever exceptional cases occur. Always throw `Error`s or subclasses of
`Error`: never throw string literals or other objects. Always use `new`
when constructing an `Error`.

This treatment extends to `Promise` rejection values as
`Promise.reject(obj)` is equivalent to `throw obj;` in async functions.

Custom exceptions provide a great way to convey additional error
information from functions. They should be defined and used wherever the
native `Error` type is insufficient.

Prefer throwing exceptions over ad-hoc error-handling approaches (such
as passing an error container reference type, or returning an object
with an error property).

##### 5.8.2.1 Empty catch blocks {#features-empty-catch-blocks}

It is very rarely correct to do nothing in response to a caught
exception. When it truly is appropriate to take no action whatsoever in
a catch block, the reason this is justified is explained in a comment.

    try {
      return handleNumericResponse(response);
    } catch (ok) {
      // it's not numeric; that's fine, just continue
    }
    return handleTextResponse(response);

Disallowed:

      try {
        shouldFail();
        fail('expected an error');
      } catch (expected) {
      }

Tip: Unlike in some other languages, patterns like the above simply
don't work since this will catch the error thrown by `fail`. Use
`assertThrows()` instead.

#### 5.8.3 Switch statements {#features-switch-statements}

Terminology Note: Inside the braces of a switch block are one or more
statement groups. Each statement group consists of one or more switch
labels (either `case FOO:` or `default:`), followed by one or more
statements.

##### 5.8.3.1 Fall-through: commented {#features-switch-fall-through}

Within a switch block, each statement group either terminates abruptly
(with a `break`, `return` or `throw`n exception), or is marked with a
comment to indicate that execution will or might continue into the next
statement group. Any comment that communicates the idea of fall-through
is sufficient (typically `// fall through`). This special comment is not
required in the last statement group of the switch block.

Example:

    switch (input) {
      case 1:
      case 2:
        prepareOneOrTwo();
      // fall through
      case 3:
        handleOneTwoOrThree();
        break;
      default:
        handleLargeNumber(input);
    }

##### 5.8.3.2 The `default` case is present {#features-switch-default-case}

Each switch statement includes a `default` statement group, even if it
contains no code. The `default` statement group must be last.

### 5.9 this {#features-this}

Only use `this` in class constructors and methods, in arrow functions
defined within class constructors and methods, or in functions that have
an explicit `@this` declared in the immediately-enclosing function's
JSDoc.

Never use `this` to refer to the global object, the context of an
`eval`, the target of an event, or unnecessarily `call()`ed or
`apply()`ed functions.

### 5.10 Equality Checks {#features-equality-checks}

Use identity operators (`===`/`!==`) except in the cases documented
below.

#### 5.10.1 Exceptions Where Coercion is Desirable {#features-equality-checks-exceptions}

Catching both `null` and `undefined` values:

    if (someObjectOrPrimitive == null) {
      // Checking for null catches both null and undefined for objects and
      // primitives, but does not catch other falsy values like 0 or the empty
      // string.
    }

### 5.11 Disallowed features

#### 5.11.1 with {#disallowed-features-with}

Do not use the `with` keyword. It makes your code harder to understand
and has been banned in strict mode since ES5.

#### 5.11.2 Dynamic code evaluation {#disallowed-features-dynamic-code-evaluation}

Do not use `eval` or the `Function(...string)` constructor (except for
code loaders). These features are potentially dangerous and simply do
not work in CSP environments.

#### 5.11.3 Automatic semicolon insertion {#disallowed-features-automatic-semicolon-insertion}

Always terminate statements with semicolons (except function and class
declarations, as noted above).

#### 5.11.4 Non-standard features {#disallowed-features-non-standard-features}

Do not use non-standard features. This includes old features that have
been removed (e.g., `WeakMap.clear`), new features that are not yet
standardized (e.g., the current TC39 working draft, proposals at any
stage, or proposed but not-yet-complete web standards), or proprietary
features that are only implemented in some browsers. Use only features
defined in the current ECMA-262 or WHATWG standards. (Note that projects
writing against specific APIs, such as Chrome extensions or Node.js, can
obviously use those APIs). Non-standard language "extensions" (such as
those provided by some external transpilers) are forbidden.

#### 5.11.5 Wrapper objects for primitive types {#disallowed-features-wrapper-objects}

Never use `new` on the primitive object wrappers (`Boolean`, `Number`,
`String`, `Symbol`), nor include them in type annotations.

Disallowed:

    const /** Boolean */ x = new Boolean(false);
    if (x) alert(typeof x);  // alerts 'object' - WAT?

The wrappers may be called as functions for coercing (which is preferred
over using `+` or concatenating the empty string) or creating symbols.

Example:

    const /** boolean */ x = Boolean(0);
    if (!x) alert(typeof x);  // alerts 'boolean', as expected

#### 5.11.6 Modifying builtin objects {#disallowed-features-modifying-builtin-objects}

Never modify builtin types, either by adding methods to their
constructors or to their prototypes. Avoid depending on libraries that
do this. Note that the JSCompiler's runtime library will provide
standards-compliant polyfills where possible; nothing else may modify
builtin objects.

Do not add symbols to the global object unless absolutely necessary
(e.g. required by a third-party API).

#### 5.11.7 Omitting `()` when invoking a constructor {#disallowed-features-omitting-parents-with-new}

Never invoke a constructor in a `new` statement without using
parentheses `()`.

Disallowed:

    new Foo;

Use instead:

    new Foo();

Omitting parentheses can lead to subtle mistakes. These two lines are
not equivalent:

    new Foo().Bar();
    new Foo.Bar();

6 Naming
--------

### 6.1 Rules common to all identifiers {#naming-rules-common-to-all-identifiers}

Identifiers use only ASCII letters and digits, and, in a small number of
cases noted below, underscores and very rarely (when required by
frameworks like Angular) dollar signs.

Give as descriptive a name as possible, within reason. Do not worry
about saving horizontal space as it is far more important to make your
code immediately understandable by a new reader. Do not use
abbreviations that are ambiguous or unfamiliar to readers outside your
project, and do not abbreviate by deleting letters within a word.

    errorCount          // No abbreviation.
    dnsConnectionIndex  // Most people know what "DNS" stands for.
    referrerUrl         // Ditto for "URL".
    customerId          // "Id" is both ubiquitous and unlikely to be misunderstood.

Disallowed:

    n                   // Meaningless.
    nErr                // Ambiguous abbreviation.
    nCompConns          // Ambiguous abbreviation.
    wgcConnections      // Only your group knows what this stands for.
    pcReader            // Lots of things can be abbreviated "pc".
    cstmrId             // Deletes internal letters.
    kSecondsPerDay      // Do not use Hungarian notation.

### 6.2 Rules by identifier type {#naming-rules-by-identifier-type}

#### 6.2.1 Package names {#naming-package-names}

Package names are all `lowerCamelCase`. For example,
`my.exampleCode.deepSpace`, but not `my.examplecode.deepspace`{.badcode}
or `my.example_code.deep_space`{.badcode}.

#### 6.2.2 Class names {#naming-class-names}

Class, interface, record, and typedef names are written in
`UpperCamelCase`. Unexported classes are simply locals: they are not
marked `@private` and therefore are not named with a trailing
underscore.

Type names are typically nouns or noun phrases. For example, `Request`,
`ImmutableList`, or `VisibilityMode`. Additionally, interface names may
sometimes be adjectives or adjective phrases instead (for example,
`Readable`).

#### 6.2.3 Method names {#naming-method-names}

Method names are written in `lowerCamelCase`. Names for `@private`
methods must end with a trailing underscore.

Method names are typically verbs or verb phrases. For example,
`sendMessage` or `stop_`. Getter and setter methods for properties are
never required, but if they are used they should be named `getFoo` (or
optionally `isFoo` or `hasFoo` for booleans), or `setFoo(value)` for
setters.

Underscores may also appear in JsUnit test method names to separate
logical components of the name. One typical pattern is
`test<MethodUnderTest>_<state>_<expectedOutcome>`, for example
`testPop_emptyStack_throws`. There is no One Correct Way to name test
methods.

#### 6.2.4 Enum names {#naming-enum-names}

Enum names are written in `UpperCamelCase`, similar to classes, and
should generally be singular nouns. Individual items within the enum are
named in `CONSTANT_CASE`.

#### 6.2.5 Constant names {#naming-constant-names}

Constant names use `CONSTANT_CASE`: all uppercase letters, with words
separated by underscores. There is no reason for a constant to be named
with a trailing underscore, since private static properties can be
replaced by (implicitly private) module locals.

##### 6.2.5.1 Definition of "constant" {#naming-definition-of-constant}

Every constant is a `@const` static property or a module-local `const`
declaration, but not all `@const` static properties and module-local
`const`s are constants. Before choosing constant case, consider whether
the field really feels like a *deeply immutable* constant. For example,
if any of that instance\'s observable state can change, it is almost
certainly not a constant. Merely intending to never mutate the object is
generally not enough.

Examples:

    // Constants
    const NUMBER = 5;
    /** @const */ exports.NAMES = ImmutableList.of('Ed', 'Ann');
    /** @enum */ exports.SomeEnum = { ENUM_CONSTANT: 'value' };

    // Not constants
    let letVariable = 'non-const';
    class MyClass { constructor() { /** @const {string} */ this.nonStatic = 'non-static'; } };
    /** @type {string} */ MyClass.staticButMutable = 'not @const, can be reassigned';
    const /** Set<string> */ mutableCollection = new Set();
    const /** ImmutableSet<SomeMutableType> */ mutableElements = ImmutableSet.of(mutable);
    const Foo = goog.require('my.Foo');  // mirrors imported name
    const logger = log.getLogger('loggers.are.not.immutable');

Constants' names are typically nouns or noun phrases.

##### 6.2.5.2 Local aliases {#naming-local-aliases}

Local aliases should be used whenever they improve readability over
fully-qualified names. Follow the same rules as `goog.require`s
([??](#file-goog-require)), maintaining the last part of the aliased
name. Aliases may also be used within functions. Aliases must be
`const`.

Examples:

    const staticHelper = importedNamespace.staticHelper;
    const CONSTANT_NAME = ImportedClass.CONSTANT_NAME;
    const {assert, assertInstanceof} = asserts;

#### 6.2.6 Non-constant field names {#naming-non-constant-field-names}

Non-constant field names (static or otherwise) are written in
`lowerCamelCase`, with a trailing underscore for private fields.

These names are typically nouns or noun phrases. For example,
`computedValues` or `index_`.

#### 6.2.7 Parameter names {#naming-parameter-names}

Parameter names are written in `lowerCamelCase`. Note that this applies
even if the parameter expects a constructor.

One-character parameter names should not be used in public methods.

**Exception**: When required by a third-party framework, parameter names
may begin with a `$`. This exception does not apply to any other
identifiers (e.g. local variables or properties).

#### 6.2.8 Local variable names {#naming-local-variable-names}

Local variable names are written in `lowerCamelCase`, except for
module-local (top-level) constants, as described above. Constants in
function scopes are still named in `lowerCamelCase`. Note that
`lowerCamelCase` is used even if the variable holds a constructor.

#### 6.2.9 Template parameter names {#naming-template-parameter-names}

Template parameter names should be concise, single-word or single-letter
identifiers, and must be all-caps, such as `TYPE` or `THIS`.

#### 6.2.10 Module-local names {#naming-module-local-names}

Module-local names that are not exported are implicitly private. They
are not marked `@private` and do not end in an underscore. This applies
to classes, functions, variables, constants, enums, and other
module-local identifiers.

### 6.3 Camel case: defined {#naming-camel-case-defined}

Sometimes there is more than one reasonable way to convert an English
phrase into camel case, such as when acronyms or unusual constructs like
"IPv6" or "iOS" are present. To improve predictability, Google Style
specifies the following (nearly) deterministic scheme.

Beginning with the prose form of the name:

1.  Convert the phrase to plain ASCII and remove any apostrophes. For
    example, "Müller\'s algorithm" might become "Muellers algorithm".
2.  Divide this result into words, splitting on spaces and any remaining
    punctuation (typically hyphens).
    1.  Recommended: if any word already has a conventional camel case
        appearance in common usage, split this into its constituent
        parts (e.g., "AdWords" becomes "ad words"). Note that a word
        such as "iOS" is not really in camel case per se; it defies any
        convention, so this recommendation does not apply.
3.  Now lowercase everything (including acronyms), then uppercase only
    the first character of:
    1.  ... each word, to yield upper camel case, or
    2.  ... each word except the first, to yield lower camel case
4.  Finally, join all the words into a single identifier.

Note that the casing of the original words is almost entirely
disregarded.

Examples:

         Prose form               Correct            Incorrect
  ------------------------- ------------------- -------------------
     "XML HTTP request"       XmlHttpRequest      XMLHTTPRequest
      "new customer ID"        newCustomerId       newCustomerID
      "inner stopwatch"       innerStopwatch      innerStopWatch
   "supports IPv6 on iOS?"   supportsIpv6OnIos   supportsIPv6OnIOS
     "YouTube importer"       YouTubeImporter    YoutubeImporter\*

\*Acceptable, but not recommended.

Note: Some words are ambiguously hyphenated in the English language: for
example "nonempty" and "non-empty" are both correct, so the method names
checkNonempty and checkNonEmpty are likewise both correct.

7 JSDoc
-------

[JSDoc](https://developers.google.com/closure/compiler/docs/js-for-compiler)
is used on all classes, fields, and methods.

### 7.1 General form {#jsdoc-general-form}

The basic formatting of JSDoc blocks is as seen in this example:

    /**
     * Multiple lines of JSDoc text are written here,
     * wrapped normally.
     * @param {number} arg A number to do something to.
     */
    function doSomething(arg) { … }

or in this single-line example:

    /** @const @private {!Foo} A short bit of JSDoc. */
    this.foo_ = foo;

If a single-line comment overflows into multiple lines, it must use the
multi-line style with `/**` and `*/` on their own lines.

Many tools extract metadata from JSDoc comments to perform code
validation and optimization. As such, these comments **must** be
well-formed.

### 7.2 Markdown {#jsdoc-markdown}

JSDoc is written in Markdown, though it may include HTML when necessary.

Note that tools that automatically extract JSDoc (e.g.
[JsDossier](https://github.com/jleyba/js-dossier)) will often ignore
plain text formatting, so if you did this:

    /**
     * Computes weight based on three factors:
     *   items sent
     *   items received
     *   last timestamp
     */

it would come out like this:

    Computes weight based on three factors: items sent items received last timestamp

Instead, write a Markdown list:

    /**
     * Computes weight based on three factors:
     *
     *  - items sent
     *  - items received
     *  - last timestamp
     */

### 7.3 JSDoc tags

Google style allows a subset of JSDoc tags. See
[??](#appendices-jsdoc-tag-reference) for the complete list. Most tags
must occupy their own line, with the tag at the beginning of the line.

Disallowed:

    /**
     * The "param" tag must occupy its own line and may not be combined.
     * @param {number} left @param {number} right
     */
    function add(left, right) { ... }

Simple tags that do not require any additional data (such as `@private`,
`@const`, `@final`, `@export`) may be combined onto the same line, along
with an optional type when appropriate.

    /**
     * Place more complex annotations (like "implements" and "template")
     * on their own lines.  Multiple simple tags (like "export" and "final")
     * may be combined in one line.
     * @export @final
     * @implements {Iterable<TYPE>}
     * @template TYPE
     */
    class MyClass {
      /**
       * @param {!ObjType} obj Some object.
       * @param {number=} num An optional number.
       */
      constructor(obj, num = 42) {
        /** @private @const {!Array<!ObjType|number>} */
        this.data_ = [obj, num];
      }
    }

There is no hard rule for when to combine tags, or in which order, but
be consistent.

For general information about annotating types in JavaScript see
[Annotating JavaScript for the Closure
Compiler](https://github.com/google/closure-compiler/wiki/Annotating-JavaScript-for-the-Closure-Compiler)
and [Types in the Closure Type
System](https://github.com/google/closure-compiler/wiki/Types-in-the-Closure-Type-System).

### 7.4 Line wrapping {#jsdoc-line-wrapping}

Line-wrapped block tags are indented four spaces. Wrapped description
text may be lined up with the description on previous lines, but this
horizontal alignment is discouraged.

    /**
     * Illustrates line wrapping for long param/return descriptions.
     * @param {string} foo This is a param with a description too long to fit in
     *     one line.
     * @return {number} This returns something that has a description too long to
     *     fit in one line.
     */
    exports.method = function(foo) {
      return 5;
    };

Do not indent when wrapping a `@desc` or `@fileoverview` description.

### 7.5 Top/file-level comments {#jsdoc-top-file-level-comments}

A file may have a top-level file overview. A copyright notice , author
information, and default [visibility
level](#jsdoc-visibility-annotations) are optional. File overviews are
generally recommended whenever a file consists of more than a single
class definition. The top level comment is designed to orient readers
unfamiliar with the code to what is in this file. If present, it may
provide a description of the file\'s contents and any dependencies or
compatibility information. Wrapped lines are not indented.

Example:

    /**
     * @fileoverview Description of file, its uses and information
     * about its dependencies.
     * @package
     */

### 7.6 Class comments {#jsdoc-class-comments}

Classes, interfaces and records must be documented with a description
and any template parameters, implemented interfaces, visibility, or
other appropriate tags. The class description should provide the reader
with enough information to know how and when to use the class, as well
as any additional considerations necessary to correctly use the class.
Textual descriptions may be omitted on the constructor. `@constructor`
and `@extends` annotations are not used with the `class` keyword unless
the class is being used to declare an `@interface` or it extends a
generic class.

    /**
     * A fancier event target that does cool things.
     * @implements {Iterable<string>}
     */
    class MyFancyTarget extends EventTarget {
      /**
       * @param {string} arg1 An argument that makes this more interesting.
       * @param {!Array<number>} arg2 List of numbers to be processed.
       */
      constructor(arg1, arg2) {
        // ...
      }
    };

    /**
     * Records are also helpful.
     * @extends {Iterator<TYPE>}
     * @record
     * @template TYPE
     */
    class Listable {
      /** @return {TYPE} The next item in line to be returned. */
      next() {}
    }

### 7.7 Enum and typedef comments {#jsdoc-enum-and-typedef-comments}

All enums and typedefs must be documented with appropriate JSDoc tags
(`@typedef` or `@enum`) on the preceding line. Public enums and typedefs
must also have a description. Individual enum items may be documented
with a JSDoc comment on the preceding line.

    /**
     * A useful type union, which is reused often.
     * @typedef {!Bandersnatch|!BandersnatchType}
     */
    let CoolUnionType;


    /**
     * Types of bandersnatches.
     * @enum {string}
     */
    const BandersnatchType = {
      /** This kind is really frumious. */
      FRUMIOUS: 'frumious',
      /** The less-frumious kind. */
      MANXOME: 'manxome',
    };

Typedefs are useful for defining short record types, or aliases for
unions, complex functions, or generic types. Typedefs should be avoided
for record types with many fields, since they do not allow documenting
individual fields, nor using templates or recursive references. For
large record types, prefer `@record`.

### 7.8 Method and function comments {#jsdoc-method-and-function-comments}

In methods and named functions, parameter and return types must be
documented, except in the case of same-signature `@override`s, where all
types are omitted. The `this` type should be documented when necessary.
Return type may be omitted if the function has no non-empty `return`
statements.

Method, parameter, and return descriptions (but not types) may be
omitted if they are obvious from the rest of the method's JSDoc or from
its signature.

Method descriptions begin with a verb phrase that describes what the
method does. This phrase is not an imperative sentence, but instead is
written in the third person, as if there is an implied "This method
\..." before it.

If a method overrides a superclass method, it must include an
`@override` annotation. Overridden methods inherit all JSDoc annotations
from the super class method (including visibility annotations) and they
should be omitted in the overridden method. However, if any type is
refined in type annotations, all `@param` and `@return` annotations must
be specified explicitly.

    /** A class that does something. */
    class SomeClass extends SomeBaseClass {
      /**
       * Operates on an instance of MyClass and returns something.
       * @param {!MyClass} obj An object that for some reason needs detailed
       *     explanation that spans multiple lines.
       * @param {!OtherClass} obviousOtherClass
       * @return {boolean} Whether something occurred.
       */
      someMethod(obj, obviousOtherClass) { ... }

      /** @override */
      overriddenMethod(param) { ... }
    }

    /**
     * Demonstrates how top-level functions follow the same rules.  This one
     * makes an array.
     * @param {TYPE} arg
     * @return {!Array<TYPE>}
     * @template TYPE
     */
    function makeArray(arg) { ... }

If you only need to document the param and return types of a function,
you may optionally use inline JSDocs in the function\'s signature. These
inline JSDocs specify the return and param types without tags.

    function /** string */ foo(/** number */ arg) {...}

If you need descriptions or tags, use a single JSDoc comment above the
method. For example, methods which return values need a `@return` tag.

    class MyClass {
      /**
       * @param {number} arg
       * @return {string}
       */
      bar(arg) {...}
    }

    // Illegal inline JSDocs.

    class MyClass {
      /** @return {string} */ foo() {...}
    }

    /** Function description. */ bar() {...}

In anonymous functions annotations are generally optional. If the
automatic type inference is insufficient or explicit annotation improves
readability, then annotate param and return types like this:

    promise.then(
        /** @return {string} */
        (/** !Array<string> */ items) => {
          doSomethingWith(items);
          return items[0];
        });

For function type expressions, see [??](#jsdoc-function-types).

### 7.9 Property comments {#jsdoc-property-comments}

Property types must be documented. The description may be omitted for
private properties, if name and type provide enough documentation for
understanding the code.

Publicly exported constants are commented the same way as properties.

    /** My class. */
    class MyClass {
      /** @param {string=} someString */
      constructor(someString = 'default string') {
        /** @private @const {string} */
        this.someString_ = someString;

        /** @private @const {!OtherType} */
        this.someOtherThing_ = functionThatReturnsAThing();

        /**
         * Maximum number of things per pane.
         * @type {number}
         */
        this.someProperty = 4;
      }
    }

    /**
     * The number of times we'll try before giving up.
     * @const {number}
     */
    MyClass.RETRY_COUNT = 33;

### 7.10 Type annotations {#jsdoc-type-annotations}

Type annotations are found on `@param`, `@return`, `@this`, and `@type`
tags, and optionally on `@const`, `@export`, and any visibility tags.
Type annotations attached to JSDoc tags must always be enclosed in
braces.

#### 7.10.1 Nullability {#jsdoc-nullability}

The type system defines modifiers `!` and `?` for non-null and nullable,
respectively. These modifiers must precede the type.

Nullability modifiers have different requirements for different types,
which fall into two broad categories:

1.  Type annotations for primitives (`string`, `number`, `boolean`,
    `symbol`, `undefined`, `null`) and literals (`{function(...): ...}`
    and `{{foo: string...}}`) are always non-nullable by default. Use
    the `?` modifier to make it nullable, but omit the redundant `!`.
2.  Reference types (generally, anything in `UpperCamelCase`, including
    `some.namespace.ReferenceType`) refer to a class, enum, record, or
    typedef defined elsewhere. Since these types may or may not be
    nullable, it is impossible to tell from the name alone whether it is
    nullable or not. Always use explicit `?` and `!` modifiers for these
    types to prevent ambiguity at use sites.

Bad:

    const /** MyObject */ myObject = null; // Non-primitive types must be annotated.
    const /** !number */ someNum = 5; // Primitives are non-nullable by default.
    const /** number? */ someNullableNum = null; // ? should precede the type.
    const /** !{foo: string, bar: number} */ record = ...; // Already non-nullable.
    const /** MyTypeDef */ def = ...; // Not sure if MyTypeDef is nullable.

    // Not sure if object (nullable), enum (non-nullable, unless otherwise
    // specified), or typedef (depends on definition).
    const /** SomeCamelCaseName */ n = ...;

Good:

    const /** ?MyObject */ myObject = null;
    const /** number */ someNum = 5;
    const /** ?number */ someNullableNum = null;
    const /** {foo: string, bar: number} */ record = ...;
    const /** !MyTypeDef */ def = ...;
    const /** ?SomeCamelCaseName */ n = ...;

#### 7.10.2 Type Casts {#jsdoc-type-casts}

In cases where the compiler doesn\'t accurately infer the type of an
expression, and the assertion functions in
[goog.asserts](https://google.github.io/closure-library/api/goog.asserts.html)
cannot remedy it , it is possible to tighten the type by adding a type
annotation comment and enclosing the expression in parentheses. Note
that the parentheses are required.

    /** @type {number} */ (x)

#### 7.10.3 Template Parameter Types {#jsdoc-template-parameter-types}

Always specify template parameters. This way compiler can do a better
job and it makes it easier for readers to understand what code does.

Bad:

    const /** !Object */ users = {};
    const /** !Array */ books = [];
    const /** !Promise */ response = ...;

Good:

    const /** !Object<string, !User> */ users = {};
    const /** !Array<string> */ books = [];
    const /** !Promise<!Response> */ response = ...;

    const /** !Promise<undefined> */ thisPromiseReturnsNothingButParameterIsStillUseful = ...;
    const /** !Object<string, *> */ mapOfEverything = {};

Cases when template parameters should not be used:

-   `Object` is used for type hierarchy and not as map-like structure.

#### 7.10.4 Function type expressions {#jsdoc-function-types}

**Terminology Note**: *function type expression* refers to a type
annotation for function types with the keyword `function` in the
annotation (see examples below).

Where the function definition is given, do not use a function type
expression. Specify parameter and return types with `@param` and
`@return`, or with inline annotations (see
[??](#jsdoc-method-and-function-comments)). This includes anonymous
functions and functions defined and assigned to a const (where the
function jsdoc appears above the whole assignment expression).

Function type expressions are needed, for example, inside `@typedef`,
`@param` or `@return`. Use it also for variables or properties of
function type, if they are not immediately initialized with the function
definition.

      /** @private {function(string): string} */
      this.idGenerator_ = googFunctions.identity;

When using a function type expression, always specify the return type
explicitly. Otherwise the default return type is "unknown" (`?`), which
leads to strange and unexpected behavior, and is rarely what is actually
desired.

Bad - type error, but no warning given:

    /** @param {function()} generateNumber */
    function foo(generateNumber) {
      const /** number */ x = generateNumber();  // No compile-time type error here.
    }

    foo(() => 'clearly not a number');

Good:

    /**
     * @param {function(): *} inputFunction1 Can return any type.
     * @param {function(): undefined} inputFunction2 Definitely doesn't return
     *      anything.
     * NOTE: the return type of `foo` itself is safely implied to be {undefined}.
     */
    function foo(inputFunction1, inputFunction2) {...}

#### 7.10.5 Whitespace {#jsdoc-whitespace}

Within a type annotation, a single space or line break is required after
each comma or colon. Additional line breaks may be inserted to improve
readability or avoid exceeding the column limit. These breaks should be
chosen and indented following the applicable guidelines (e.g.
[??](#formatting-line-wrapping) and
[??](#formatting-block-indentation)). No other whitespace is allowed in
type annotations.

Good:

    /** @type {function(string): number} */

    /** @type {{foo: number, bar: number}} */

    /** @type {number|string} */

    /** @type {!Object<string, string>} */

    /** @type {function(this: Object<string, string>, number): string} */

    /**
     * @type {function(
     *     !SuperDuperReallyReallyLongTypedefThatForcesTheLineBreak,
     *     !OtherVeryLongTypedef): string}
     */

    /**
     * @type {!SuperDuperReallyReallyLongTypedefThatForcesTheLineBreak|
     *     !OtherVeryLongTypedef}
     */

Bad:

    // Only put a space after the colon
    /** @type {function(string) : number} */

    // Put spaces after colons and commas
    /** @type {{foo:number,bar:number}} */

    // No space in union types
    /** @type {number | string} */

### 7.11 Visibility annotations {#jsdoc-visibility-annotations}

Visibility annotations (`@private`, `@package`, `@protected`) may be
specified in a `@fileoverview` block, or on any exported symbol or
property. Do not specify visibility for local variables, whether within
a function or at the top level of a module. All `@private` names must
end with an underscore.

8 Policies
----------

### 8.1 Issues unspecified by Google Style: Be Consistent! {#policies-be-consistent}

For any style question that isn\'t settled definitively by this
specification, prefer to do what the other code in the same file is
already doing. If that doesn\'t resolve the question, consider emulating
the other files in the same package.

### 8.2 Compiler warnings {#policies-compiler-warnings}

#### 8.2.1 Use a standard warning set {#policies-use-a-standard-warning-set}

As far as possible projects should use `--warning_level=VERBOSE`.

#### 8.2.2 How to handle a warning {#policies-how-to-handle-a-warning}

Before doing anything, make sure you understand exactly what the warning
is telling you. If you\'re not positive why a warning is appearing, ask
for help .

Once you understand the warning, attempt the following solutions in
order:

1.  **First, fix it or work around it.** Make a strong attempt to
    actually address the warning, or find another way to accomplish the
    task that avoids the situation entirely.
2.  **Otherwise, determine if it\'s a false alarm.** If you are
    convinced that the warning is invalid and that the code is actually
    safe and correct, add a comment to convince the reader of this fact
    and apply the `@suppress` annotation.
3.  **Otherwise, leave a TODO comment.** This is a **last resort**. If
    you do this, **do not suppress the warning.** The warning should be
    visible until it can be taken care of properly.

#### 8.2.3 Suppress a warning at the narrowest reasonable scope {#policies-suppress-a-warning-at-the-narrowest-reasonable-scope}

Warnings are suppressed at the narrowest reasonable scope, usually that
of a single local variable or very small method. Often a variable or
method is extracted for that reason alone.

Example

    /** @suppress {uselessCode} Unrecognized 'use asm' declaration */
    function fn() {
      'use asm';
      return 0;
    }

Even a large number of suppressions in a class is still better than
blinding the entire class to this type of warning.

### 8.3 Deprecation {#policies-deprecation}

Mark deprecated methods, classes or interfaces with `@deprecated`
annotations. A deprecation comment must include simple, clear directions
for people to fix their call sites.

### 8.4 Code not in Google Style {#policies-code-not-in-google-style}

You will occasionally encounter files in your codebase that are not in
proper Google Style. These may have come from an acquisition, or may
have been written before Google Style took a position on some issue, or
may be in non-Google Style for any other reason.

#### 8.4.1 Reformatting existing code {#policies-reformatting-existing-code}

When updating the style of existing code, follow these guidelines.

1.  It is not required to change all existing code to meet current style
    guidelines. Reformatting existing code is a trade-off between code
    churn and consistency. Style rules evolve over time and these kinds
    of tweaks to maintain compliance would create unnecessary churn.
    However, if significant changes are being made to a file it is
    expected that the file will be in Google Style.
2.  Be careful not to allow opportunistic style fixes to muddle the
    focus of a CL. If you find yourself making a lot of style changes
    that aren't critical to the central focus of a CL, promote those
    changes to a separate CL.

#### 8.4.2 Newly added code: use Google Style {#policies-newly-added-code-use-google-style}

Brand new files use Google Style, regardless of the style choices of
other files in the same package.

When adding new code to a file that is not in Google Style, reformatting
the existing code first is recommended, subject to the advice in
[??](#policies-reformatting-existing-code).

If this reformatting is not done, then new code should be as consistent
as possible with existing code in the same file, but must not violate
the style guide.

### 8.5 Local style rules {#policies-local-style-rules}

Teams and projects may adopt additional style rules beyond those in this
document, but must accept that cleanup changes may not abide by these
additional rules, and must not block such cleanup changes due to
violating any additional rules. Beware of excessive rules which serve no
purpose. The style guide does not seek to define style in every possible
scenario and neither should you.

### 8.6 Generated code: mostly exempt {#policies-generated-code-mostly-exempt}

Source code generated by the build process is not required to be in
Google Style. However, any generated identifiers that will be referenced
from hand-written source code must follow the naming requirements. As a
special exception, such identifiers are allowed to contain underscores,
which may help to avoid conflicts with hand-written identifiers.

9 Appendices
------------

### 9.1 JSDoc tag reference {#appendices-jsdoc-tag-reference}

JSDoc serves multiple purposes in JavaScript. In addition to being used
to generate documentation it is also used to control tooling. The best
known are the Closure Compiler type annotations.

#### 9.1.1 Type annotations and other Closure Compiler annotations {#appendices-type-annotations}

Documentation for JSDoc used by the Closure Compiler is described in
[Annotating JavaScript for the Closure
Compiler](https://github.com/google/closure-compiler/wiki/Annotating-JavaScript-for-the-Closure-Compiler)
and [Types in the Closure Type
System](https://github.com/google/closure-compiler/wiki/Types-in-the-Closure-Type-System).

#### 9.1.2 Documentation annotations {#appendices-documentation-annotations}

In addition to the JSDoc described in [Annotating JavaScript for the
Closure
Compiler](https://github.com/google/closure-compiler/wiki/Annotating-JavaScript-for-the-Closure-Compiler)
the following tags are common and well supported by various
documentation generation tools (such as
[JsDossier](https://github.com/jleyba/js-dossier)) for purely
documentation purposes.

You may also see other types of JSDoc annotations in third-party code.
These annotations appear in the [JSDoc Toolkit Tag
Reference](http://code.google.com/p/jsdoc-toolkit/wiki/TagReference) but
are not considered part of valid Google style.

##### 9.1.2.1 `@author` or `@owner` - *Not recommended.*

**Not recommended.**

Syntax: `@author username@google.com (First Last)`

    /**
     * @fileoverview Utilities for handling textareas.
     * @author kuth@google.com (Uthur Pendragon)
     */

Documents the author of a file or the owner of a test, generally only
used in the `@fileoverview` comment. The `@owner` tag is used by the
unit test dashboard to determine who owns the test results.

##### 9.1.2.2 `@bug`

Syntax: `@bug bugnumber`

    /** @bug 1234567 */
    function testSomething() {
      // …
    }

    /**
     * @bug 1234568
     * @bug 1234569
     */
    function testTwoBugs() {
      // …
    }

Indicates what bugs the given test function regression tests.

Multiple bugs should each have their own `@bug` line, to make searching
for regression tests as easy as possible.

##### 9.1.2.3 `@code` - *Deprecated. Do not use.*

**Deprecated. Do not use. Use Markdown backticks instead.**

Syntax: `{@code ...}`

Historically, `` `BatchItem` `` was written as
`{@code BatchItem}`{.badcode}.

    /** Processes pending `BatchItem` instances. */
    function processBatchItems() {}

Indicates that a term in a JSDoc description is code so it may be
correctly formatted in generated documentation.

##### 9.1.2.4 `@desc`

Syntax: `@desc Message description`

    /** @desc Notifying a user that their account has been created. */
    exports.MSG_ACCOUNT_CREATED = goog.getMsg(
        'Your account has been successfully created.');

##### 9.1.2.5 `@link`

Syntax: `{@link ...}`

This tag is used to generate cross-reference links within generated
documentation.

    /** Processes pending {@link BatchItem} instances. */
    function processBatchItems() {}

**Historical note:** \@link tags have also been used to create external
links in generated documentation. For external links, always use
Markdown\'s link syntax instead:

    /**
     * This class implements a useful subset of the
     * [native Event interface](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#event).
     */
    class ApplicationEvent {}

##### 9.1.2.6 `@see`

Syntax: `@see Link`

    /**
     * Adds a single item, recklessly.
     * @see #addSafely
     * @see goog.Collect
     * @see goog.RecklessAdder#add
     */

Reference a lookup to another class function or method.

##### 9.1.2.7 `@supported`

Syntax: `@supported Description`

    /**
     * @fileoverview Event Manager
     * Provides an abstracted interface to the browsers' event systems.
     * @supported IE10+, Chrome, Safari
     */

Used in a fileoverview to indicate what browsers are supported by the
file.

#### 9.1.3 Framework specific annotations {#appendices-framework-specific-annotations}

The following annotations are specific to a particular framework.

##### 9.1.3.1 `@ngInject` for Angular 1

##### 9.1.3.2 `@polymerBehavior` for Polymer

<https://github.com/google/closure-compiler/wiki/Polymer-Pass>

#### 9.1.4 Notes about standard Closure Compiler annotations {#appendices-notes-about-standard-closure-compiler-annotations}

The following tags used to be standard but are now deprecated.

##### 9.1.4.1 `@expose` - *Deprecated. Do not use.*

**Deprecated. Do not use. Use `@export` and/or `@nocollapse` instead.**

##### 9.1.4.2 `@inheritDoc` - *Deprecated. Do not use.*

**Deprecated. Do not use. Use `@override` instead.**

### 9.2 Commonly misunderstood style rules {#appendices-commonly-misunderstood-style-rules}

Here is a collection of lesser-known or commonly misunderstood facts
about Google Style for JavaScript. (The following are true statements;
this is not a list of "myths.")

-   Neither a copyright statement nor `@author` credit is required in a
    source file. (Neither is explicitly recommended, either.)
-   There is no "hard and fast" rule governing how to order the members
    of a class ([??](#features-classes)).
-   Empty blocks can usually be represented concisely as `{}`, as
    detailed in ([??](#formatting-empty-blocks)).
-   The prime directive of line-wrapping is: prefer to break at a higher
    syntactic level ([??](#formatting-where-to-break)).
-   Non-ASCII characters are allowed in string literals, comments and
    JSDoc, and in fact are recommended when they make the code easier to
    read than the equivalent Unicode escape would
    ([??](#non-ascii-characters)).

### 9.3 Style-related tools {#appendices-style-related-tools}

The following tools exist to support various aspects of Google Style.

#### 9.3.1 Closure Compiler {#appendices-tools-closure-compiler}

This program performs type checking and other checks, optimizations and
other transformations (such as ECMAScript 6 to ECMAScript 5 code
lowering).

#### 9.3.2 `clang-format` {#appendices-clang-format}

This program reformats JavaScript source code into Google Style, and
also follows a number of non-required but frequently
readability-enhancing formatting practices. The output produced by
`clang-format` is compliant with the style guide.

`clang-format` is not required. Authors are allowed to change its
output, and reviewers are allowed to ask for such changes; disputes are
worked out in the usual way. However, subtrees may choose to opt in to
such enforcement locally.

#### 9.3.3 Closure compiler linter {#appendices-closure-compiler-linter}

This program checks for a variety of missteps and anti-patterns.

#### 9.3.4 Conformance framework {#appendices-conformance-framework}

The JS Conformance Framework is a tool that is part of the Closure
Compiler that provides developers a simple means to specify a set of
additional checks to be run against their code base above the standard
checks. Conformance checks can, for example, forbid access to a certain
property, or calls to a certain function, or missing type information
(unknowns).

These rules are commonly used to enforce critical restrictions (such as
defining globals, which could break the codebase) and security patterns
(such as using `eval` or assigning to `innerHTML`), or more loosely to
improve code quality.

For additional information see the official documentation for the [JS
Conformance
Framework](https://github.com/google/closure-compiler/wiki/JS-Conformance-Framework).

### 9.4 Exceptions for legacy platforms {#appendices-legacy-exceptions}

#### 9.4.1 Overview {#appendices-legacy-exceptions-overview}

This section describes exceptions and additional rules to be followed
when modern ECMAScript 6 syntax is not available to the code authors.
Exceptions to the recommended style are required when ECMAScript 6
syntax is not possible and are outlined here:

-   Use of `var` declarations is allowed
-   Use of `arguments` is allowed
-   Optional parameters without default values are allowed

#### 9.4.2 Use `var` {#appendices-legacy-exceptions-var}

##### 9.4.2.1 `var` declarations are NOT block-scoped {#appendices-legacy-exceptions-var-scope}

`var` declarations are scoped to the beginning of the nearest enclosing
function, script or module, which can cause unexpected behavior,
especially with function closures that reference `var` declarations
inside of loops. The following code gives an example:

    for (var i = 0; i < 3; ++i) {
      var iteration = i;
      setTimeout(function() { console.log(iteration); }, i*1000);
    }

    // logs 2, 2, 2 -- NOT 0, 1, 2
    // because `iteration` is function-scoped, not local to the loop.

##### 9.4.2.2 Declare variables as close as possible to first use {#appendices-legacy-exceptions-var-declare}

Even though `var` declarations are scoped to the beginning of the
enclosing function, `var` declarations should be as close as possible to
their first use, for readability purposes. However, do not put a `var`
declaration inside a block if that variable is referenced outside the
block. For example:

    function sillyFunction() {
      var count = 0;
      for (var x in y) {
        // "count" could be declared here, but don't do that.
        count++;
      }
      console.log(count + ' items in y');
    }

##### 9.4.2.3 Use \@const for constants variables {#appendices-legacy-exceptions-var-const}

For global declarations where the `const` keyword would be used, if it
were available, annotate the `var` declaration with \@const instead
(this is optional for local variables).

#### 9.4.3 Do not use block scoped functions declarations {#appendices-legacy-exceptions-function}

Do **not** do this:

    if (x) {
      function foo() {}
    }

While most JavaScript VMs implemented before ECMAScript 6 support
function declarations within blocks it was not standardized.
Implementations were inconsistent with each other and with the
now-standard ECMAScript 6 behavior for block scoped function
declaration. ECMAScript 5 and prior only allow for function declarations
in the root statement list of a script or function and explicitly ban
them in block scopes in strict mode.

To get consistent behavior, instead use a `var` initialized with a
function expression to define a function within a block:

    if (x) {
      var foo = function() {};
    }

#### 9.4.4 Dependency management with `goog.provide`/`goog.require` {#appendices-legacy-exceptions-goog-provide}

##### 9.4.4.1 Summary {#appendices-legacy-exceptions-goog-provide-summary}

**WARNING: `goog.provide` dependency management is deprecated.** All new
files, even in projects using `goog.provide` for older files, should use
[`goog.module`](#source-file-structure). The following rules are for
pre-existing `goog.provide` files only.

-   Place all `goog.provide`s first, `goog.require`s second. Separate
    provides from requires with an empty line.
-   Sort the entries alphabetically (uppercase first).
-   Don\'t wrap `goog.provide` and `goog.require` statements. Exceed 80
    columns if necessary.
-   Only provide top-level symbols.

`goog.provide` statements should be grouped together and placed first.
All `goog.require` statements should follow. The two lists should be
separated with an empty line.

Similar to import statements in other languages, `goog.provide` and
`goog.require` statements should be written in a single line, even if
they exceed the 80 column line length limit.

The lines should be sorted alphabetically, with uppercase letters coming
first:

    goog.provide('namespace.MyClass');
    goog.provide('namespace.helperFoo');

    goog.require('an.extremelyLongNamespace.thatSomeoneThought.wouldBeNice.andNowItIsLonger.Than80Columns');
    goog.require('goog.dom');
    goog.require('goog.dom.TagName');
    goog.require('goog.dom.classes');
    goog.require('goog.dominoes');

All members defined on a class should be in the same file. Only
top-level classes should be provided in a file that contains multiple
members defined on the same class (e.g. enums, inner classes, etc).

Do this:

    goog.provide('namespace.MyClass');

Not this:

    goog.provide('namespace.MyClass');
    goog.provide('namespace.MyClass.CONSTANT');
    goog.provide('namespace.MyClass.Enum');
    goog.provide('namespace.MyClass.InnerClass');
    goog.provide('namespace.MyClass.TypeDef');
    goog.provide('namespace.MyClass.staticMethod');

Members on namespaces may also be provided:

    goog.provide('foo.bar');
    goog.provide('foo.bar.CONSTANT');
    goog.provide('foo.bar.method');

##### 9.4.4.2 Aliasing with `goog.scope` {#appendices-legacy-exceptions-goog-scope}

**WARNING: `goog.scope` is deprecated.** New files should not use
`goog.scope` even in projects with existing `goog.scope` usage.

`goog.scope` may be used to shorten references to namespaced symbols in
code using `goog.provide`/`goog.require` dependency management.

Only one `goog.scope` invocation may be added per file. Always place it
in the global scope.

The opening `goog.scope(function() {` invocation must be preceded by
exactly one blank line and follow any `goog.provide` statements,
`goog.require` statements, or top-level comments. The invocation must be
closed on the last line in the file. Append `// goog.scope` to the
closing statement of the scope. Separate the comment from the semicolon
by two spaces.

Similar to C++ namespaces, do not indent under `goog.scope`
declarations. Instead, continue from the 0 column.

Only make aliases for names that will not be re-assigned to another
object (e.g., most constructors, enums, and namespaces). Do not do this
(see below for how to alias a constructor):

    goog.scope(function() {
    var Button = goog.ui.Button;

    Button = function() { ... };
    ...

Names must be the same as the last property of the global that they are
aliasing.

    goog.provide('my.module.SomeType');

    goog.require('goog.dom');
    goog.require('goog.ui.Button');

    goog.scope(function() {
    var Button = goog.ui.Button;
    var dom = goog.dom;

    // Alias new types after the constructor declaration.
    my.module.SomeType = function() { ... };
    var SomeType = my.module.SomeType;

    // Declare methods on the prototype as usual:
    SomeType.prototype.findButton = function() {
      // Button as aliased above.
      this.button = new Button(dom.getElement('my-button'));
    };
    ...
    });  // goog.scope

##### 9.4.4.3 `goog.forwardDeclare` {#appendices-legacy-exceptions-forward-declare}

Prefer to use `goog.requireType` instead of `goog.forwardDeclare` to
break circular dependencies between files in the same library. Unlike
`goog.require`, a `goog.requireType` statement is allowed to import a
namespace before it is defined.

`goog.forwardDeclare` may still be used in legacy code to break circular
references spanning across library boundaries, but newer code should be
structured to avoid it.

`goog.forwardDeclare` statements must follow the same style rules as
`goog.require` and `goog.requireType`. The entire block of
`goog.forwardDeclare`, `goog.require` and `goog.requireType` statements
is sorted alphabetically.
